# 50 Disney World Hacks That Will Change Your Entire Trip

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=act932lbMUw
Channel: DFBGuide
Duration: 43:12
Published: 2026-05-14
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:33:27.163967+00:00

## Transcript

Don't overthink your Disney World vacation. Just start using these easy hacks to change your entire trip for the better. Hey everybody, it's AJ for Disney Food Blog. Some of our favorite Disney World hacks have been reliable for years, but others have completely changed to adapt to the many updates that Disney World's been implementing lately. In today's video, we've got a healthy mix of classic tips, brand new tricks that we've tried and tested, and 100% game-changing hacks for your upcoming Disney World vacation.

Now, I hope you know this by now, but you can trust us to absolutely check every one of these babies out and make sure that it's going to work for you. You don't have to pay for character dining to meet some of your favorite characters. You don't even have to have park ticket. Disney friends have been popping into select Disney World resorts a whole lot more frequently nowadays, and during the summer, all those cool kids summer hotels, they're going to be doing a whole lot more with scheduled character appearance times for, as stated before, zero extra dollars. Zero dollars, zero cents, meet Disney characters.

Check the resort lobby for an updated hotel activity schedule or go into the Disney World website, search for a specific hotel, click on the resort tab, and find the updated activity schedule from there. Stick with me through this one cuz I'm going to show you exactly which Lightning Lanes you'll want to prioritize in Magic Kingdom, Epcot, and Hollywood Studios from here on out. If you're planning on purchasing multi-pass Lightning Lanes, which is Disney's premium skip-the-ride line service, you're going to be able to pre-select up to three priority Lightning Lanes ahead of time, but that's not the trick. There's a lot of nuances to this add-on, which you can learn more about in our free maximizing your Lightning Lanes guide. Just scan the QR code you see on the screen or click on the link in the description.

It's disneyfoodblog.com/multipass. You can do that after the video or whenever you want, whatever. But one of the biggest things to remember about the pre-selection process is that three out of the four parks, not Animal Kingdom, but all the others, have Lightning Lane tiers. You can pre-select one Lightning Lane from the tier one group. Those are the most, most, most popular rides.

And two or all three Lightning Lanes from the tier two group. Those are the slightly less popular rides. So now that we got the new up-and-coming and refreshed rides to choose from in Hollywood Studios and Magic Kingdom and Epcot, how does that impact your future Lightning Lane pre-selections? Here are the multi-pass pre-selections you're going to want to prioritize if your main goal is to see all the new stuff during your next visit. In Magic Kingdom, Big Thunder Mountain Railroad has reopened after being closed for over a year, so choose that as your tier one selection maybe and see what the wildest ride feels like now.

Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin was revamped with new blasters, ride vehicle, show scenes, and targets making it a solid tier two choice. And when it comes to your second tier two option, Haunted Mansion might not have undergone any big changes recently, but it's still a solid multi-pass pre-selection to have in your back pocket. In Epcot, Frozen Ever After started the year strong with new animatronics, so you might want to make that ride your tier one selection. Soarin Across America may be open by the time you get around to watching this video since it's set to take over the Soarin theater on May 26th. At this time, Soarin is still listed as a tier two pre-selection option and then your third pre-selection option is entirely up to you.

Though if you're more of a thrill seeker, Mission Space might be a solid contender. Just as long as you have a solid stomach to withstand those G-force spins. And finally in Hollywood Studios, both Rock 'n' Roller Coaster and Millennium Falcon Smugglers Run are going to be solid tier one pre-selection since Rock 'n' Roller Coaster reopens on May 26th with that new Muppets retheme and new missions are being added to Smugglers Run on May 22nd. Then your tier two pre selections can pretty much stay the same as they were before. Tower of Terror for one, Toy Story Mania for the other.

From May 26th to September 8th, you and the kids can hit up Cool Kids Summer at Disney World, which is basically a property-wide event that has even more offerings for the kids and kids at heart to enjoy, including dance parties and rare character meet and greets, more crafts and games, and limited-time activities everywhere. One of those activities is the resort libraries coming to the Cool Kids Summer designated resorts. That's Pop Century, Art of Animation, Caribbean Beach, and Port Orleans Riverside. These special libraries have been created by Disney Publishing and on select evenings your family can come here for a cozy pajama party complete with story time and bedtime activities to help wind everyone down for the evening featuring books. At the end of last December, Trader Sam's Grog Grotto in Polynesian Village Resort finally added a walk-up waitlist to the My Disney Experience app, so you no longer have to go up and put your name in at the host stand if you want to join the list.

Though you're still more than welcome to do so if that feels easier for you. Just keep in mind that you do need to be within the Grog Grotto vicinity, meaning you need to be at the Polynesian Village Resort before you're allowed to join the My Disney Express walk-up waitlist, which means that even if you're like on the monorail on your way over, it's not going to work. Trust me, I've tried. Also, just a heads-up, remember that Grog Grotto is opening at 11:00 a.m. now instead of 3:00 p.m., which is awesome.

But I was there just last week and the walk-up waitlist was already an hour long at 11:15 a.m. Just so you're aware, if you're heading to Disney World this summer and you're planning on staying at a Cool Kids Summer designated resort, these hotels will specifically provide complimentary child care items during stay like bottle warmers, infant bathtubs, diaper disposal units, and nightlights. Hopefully, those complimentary offerings stick around even after the summer wraps up cuz I sure would have loved having that on hand when my kid was little. I don't want to stress you out about the possibility of getting sick on a Disney World vacation, but when you're inside the most magical place on Earth, pixie dust and germs are everywhere. Believe me, our team is on property every single day, and every once in a while we all come down with a Disney crud.

That's what we call it. If you find yourself getting a little too much of those germs, less of the pixie dust, and don't feel well enough to leave your hotel room for a doctor's visit, you can do virtual visits via AdventHealth. That's the official health partner of Disney World through your free My Disney Experience app. Just tap on those three horizontal lines at the bottom of the screen and scroll down until you find the accessibility and health services option. They're going to walk you through the rest of the steps from there.

Also, if you wind up needing medication after your virtual visit, no problem. AdventHealth can have that delivered to your Disney World hotel and to individual theme parks, too. Now that Buzz Lightyear Space Ranger Spin has gotten a major refresh, there are new ways to rack up points and become a galactic hero. Here's what you need to know. One of the major improvements that happened to this ride is that you can now remove the blaster from the vehicle holster.

So, grip the blaster with both hands, but use one hand for shooting and the other to hold it steady. You'll also want to be on the lookout for targets that are flashing white since those are worth more than the others. But, if you're lucky enough to catch a target that's flashing rainbow, aim and fire. These targets unlock a 10-second bonus mode, helping you rack up a ton of points in a short amount of time. A lot of Disney snack cards on Epcot festival booths are starting to go cashless.

So, if you want something from one of these spots, you will have to use some sort of a card to pay for it. Thankfully, gift cards still work at these cashless locations. So, if you're trying to keep from swiping your credit or debit card at single stop in an attempt to stick to a specific budget, load up a Disney gift card before or even during your trip and use that instead. If you'd rather take a leisurely ride to the other side of Epcot's World Showcase instead of racking up even more stops when your feet are already killing you, find the boat docks in either the Canada Pavilion or the Morocco Pavilion. Epcot's Friendships will carry you across the World Showcase Lagoon from one dock to the other.

The boats typically run every 15 minutes and start up an hour after Epcot opens, but wrap things up an hour before Epcot closes each day. Your younger kid isn't always going to want to wait in lines for rides, trust me on this. So, you'll want to track down the in-park playgrounds and water features that they can experience anytime, no waiting required. Believe me, I was shocked to realize that even though I was in a theme park with my toddler, he didn't have anywhere to run around. He couldn't get his energy out, so I had to kind of invent places to take him to give him the chance to just release some of that energy because, believe it or not, standing in a bunch of lines and a bunch of crowds is super problematic if you have a very busy toddler like mine was.

So, if you're in Magic Kingdom, head to Storybook Circus. That's where you're going to find the Casey Jr. Splash and Soak Station and the circus tent playground attached to the Dumbo the Flying Elephant queue. Kids are allowed to play under the big top at any time, even if they're not looking to ride the Dumbo ride. In Epcot, Journey of Water Inspired by Moana inside the World Nature area gives guests the chance to play with this walk-through's living water features.

And there's also an outdoor play zone near the Creations shop in World Celebration that often receives festival makeovers. Don't forget the end-of-ride play areas, too, including the Space Base indoor playground at Mission Space, the Image Works What If Labs attached to Journey to Imagination with Figment, Project Tomorrow at the end of Spaceship Earth, and the Seas Aquariums right after The Seas with Nemo and Friends. In Hollywood Studios, your kid might be able to explore the brand new Drawn to Wonderland playground depending on when you're in the park. This space, slated to open in late summer 2026, will feature an oversized flower garden with musical instruments, a mad tea party play set, and a Tugley Wood exploration area. These, of course, all are all based on the original concept art of Alice in Wonderland by Mary Blair.

And in Animal Kingdom, well, we've lost the boneyard that used to be available in Dinoland USA, but don't worry, they're going to build a new playground over there. But for now, the animal walking trails, like Maharajah Jungle Trek in Asia, the Gorilla Falls Exploration Trail in Africa, and the Discovery Island Trails can give your kids a chance to roam and meet the creatures who call this park home. Also, Bluey and her sister Bingo are taking over the Conservation Station starting May 26th, which will give kids the chance to play games and dance and blow off steam with their favorite blue heelers. Disney World, as you might have already guessed, is not a quiet place. So, if you're more of a natural introvert and you need a place to escape for a bit just to gather your bearings, these are the Disney hotels you might want to book, or even just pay a visit to in the afternoon for a little breather.

Number one, Wilderness Lodge. Wilderness invites you to grab a rocking chair and sit by a fireplace, or just get a seat outside next to the water while sipping on a Pacific Northwest-inspired cocktail from the Geyser Point Bar and Grill. Feel that? That's your nervous system saying, "Thank you." The second one I recommend is Animal Kingdom Lodge. Again, rocking chairs, but this time, instead of sitting next to roaring fireplaces, you're sitting and rocking and watching the animals roam the hotel's backyard savanna.

Telling you, just watching them can calm down your whole like chi, cuz they don't care, man. They're just They're just out there making sure they're having some dinner. And then maybe any of the Disney Springs area hotels, like catch a ride on one of the Disney Springs water taxis and go to Saratoga Springs or Old Key West or either of the Port Orleans resorts for peace and quiet and maximum relaxation. A Disney Visa is more than just a credit card when you're in the parks. It's also your key to a lot of Disney World extras.

Before you could use your Disney Visa to access a shorter Olaf meet and greet line over in Hollywood Studios, but this perk has changed. Now you've got the exclusive chance to meet Stitch while he's sporting his super cute Hawaiian lei. This Disney Visa card member meet and greet is open every day from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and it does come with complimentary PhotoPass photos as well.

So make sure you have your Disney Visa out and ready before you head over to the queue because a cast member will check to make sure you have it. Looking for more Disney Visa specialty meet and greets across the other parks? You can also find exclusive Disney Visa characters at Epcot next to Journey into Imagination with Figment. Characters vary, but it'll usually be one or two members of the Fab Five. Anyone remember Disney Enchantment?

Yeah, this was the fireworks show that replaced Happily Ever After in Magic Kingdom for a little bit during Disney World's 50th anniversary celebration in 2021. Happily Ever After eventually returned, but Disney Enchantment didn't go away for good. But you wouldn't know this unless you purchased a Magic Kingdom After Hours ticket. After Hours tickets give you 3 hours in the park after it closes for everybody else, which means you'll have access to over 20 Magic Kingdom attractions while the park is kept at a limited capacity. Plus you get to watch Disney Enchantment during the party, too.

Yeah, how about that? After Hours runs from 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. at Magic Kingdom usually, but you can still enter the park as early as 7:00 p.m. with your event ticket.

So no general admission cost required, you can still get in at 7:00. And that means if you arrive early enough, you're actually going to be able to watch both Happily Ever After during the regular park hours and Enchantment during After Hours all in one night. Two fireworks shows, one evening. Okay, dear parents with littles, if your kids do gravitate toward the water features of the parks or maybe super sticky lollipops or I don't know, diaper blowouts, then you're not only going to want to have a dry change of clothes on hand, but you're also going to want some gallon-size plastic bags to keep the wet shirts and socks and britches stored away from all your other stuff. Believe me, you can get those wet bags that they have that are super expensive or just get gallon-size plastic bags from the local big-box store because, you know what?

They do the same thing. If you booked a Lightning Lane for a ride that typically closes during bad weather, like Expedition Everest in Animal Kingdom, Slinky Dog Dash in Hollywood Studios, Test Track in Epcot, you know, you want to be close attention to your My Disney Experience app when a storm starts brewing. Sometimes when a ride that you have a Lightning Lane for has to close due to bad weather during your return window, you could receive a multiple experiences redemption pass via the app as a little I'm sorry compensation. This is never guaranteed, but if you do get one, then these passes let you get on any multi-pass ride at any time, even for Lightning Lane you've already done earlier in the day. Note that it doesn't work on single-pass rides, just multi-pass ones.

Disney has shipping locations where you can send home those Disney souvenirs that would have taken up way too much space in your luggage otherwise, and one of the more popular shipping locations on Disney property is at Marketplace Co-Op in Disney Springs. Previously, prices for shipping ranged from 20 to 40 bucks just depending on the weight of what you're sending, right? But now, pricing looks more like this. It depends on the value of your item. If you can't fit all of your souvenirs in your suitcase, it might be better to keep the most expensive items with you and ship the less expensive items to keep the value of the package lower.

You can also visit nearby postal stores just outside the Disney bubble and pack your own items there. There's a UPS store in Flamingo Crossings, which is directly next to Disney World, and they'll pack your items for you and can offer a much cheaper shipping alternative, too. But, it may just behoove you to buy the merch before or after your trip instead of buying it there. Many times over, we've been able to find the exact same Disney World souvenirs on the Disney Store website that we can find in the parks. Meaning, you don't even technically have to go to Disney World to pick them up.

You can just have them sent directly to your house before or after your trip. Plus, several times throughout the year, disneystore.com has those giant sales and discounts and stuff. So, you can spend even less on those items online than you would have paid for them on site. And sometimes they even have free shipping. Now, beyond the Disney Store website, we've also seen discounts for select Disney Parks merchandise pop up on Amazon for way cheaper, too.

So, before you commit to paying full price for a Disney Parks souvenir and then hauling it home with you, pull out your phone and do a quick once-over on these websites first to make sure you can't find it cheaper elsewhere. Disney tells you what their ticket prices are going to look like before you even go to Disney World for the whole year. This is why, if you go to the Disney World website right now, you're going to be able to find ticket prices for most of 2027, maybe even all of 2027 depending on when you're watching. When you head to the Disney World website to purchase theme park tickets, after you choose your park ticket preference, like a general ticket or a park hopper, and you choose how many days you want to be in the parks for, Disney's going to take you to a theme park ticket calendar, which lays out all the ticket prices for the whole year and beyond. Meaning, you can literally choose how much you're going to pay for this upcoming trip, or at least start planning a budget around a few different options.

Sometimes after you roll your stroller into the designated stroller parking area, that sea of strollers that you see outside of a ride, a cast member may need to shift it again to make room for more strollers or to avoid creating bottleneck paths. Your stroller is never going to be moved all the way over to the other side of the park for an impromptu game of hide and seek or anything, but it could be shifted deeper into the sea of strollers than you remember. And that could possibly cause a brief moment of panic when you don't see it right away. In order to easily track your stroller down, whether it's shifted from where you last put it or not, give your stroller an easy to identify marker, like a string of lights wrapped around the hood or a colorful bandana or a cute frilly banner that's got your name on it or something like that. Lots of people recommend you tie a balloon to it.

I don't like the balloon idea because as a mom who has pushed a stroller around Disney World with a balloon on it that kept hitting her in the face the entire time and then also hitting other unsuspecting onlookers in the face, I don't go the balloon route anymore. But putting something onto your stroller that makes it recognizable as your stroller can really, really help you spot it when everybody's stroller looks the same. If you've planned a break day for your Disney World visit, you might not even want to tease the idea of getting up and around early if you don't have to. And yet, you might still want to, especially if you want to check out your resort's feature pool minus all the crowds. Each Disney Hotel's feature pool can hold a lot of guests at a time, but if you're visiting during the summer and it's coming up around the afternoon, those pools get packed, like uncomfortably so.

However, in the morning, right after they open which is usually around 10:00 a.m. or maybe even earlier, crowds are super chill, meaning you can claim first dibs on lounge chairs and get some back-to-back rides on the water slides without any extra waits. If you really don't want to get up and around for a pool rope drop, things also start to empty out around dinner time, which can be really nice cuz the sun is also starting to set and therefore it won't be torturously beating down on you quite as much. That's my favorite time to go to a Disney pool, right around dinner time. Magic Kingdom throws two holiday specific after-hours parties on select evenings at the end of each year.

Mickey's Not-So-Scary Halloween Party is the first, and Mickey's Very Merry Christmas Party is the second. And Hollywood Studios throws one holiday specific after-hours party, too, Jollywood Nights, on select nights in November and December. But here is the overarching truth about all of these. Holiday parties get much more expensive the closer you get to the actual holiday they're celebrating. So, you might want to start celebrating the season a little early and book the earlier party tickets in order to get the better ticket deals.

Now, just a quick word of caution here. While most of those early party days are going to be your cheapest options, the very first party or parties of the season are still marked higher because that's when you get to see everything for the first time, which means all of the vloggers and bloggers and influencers are buying tickets for those dates, so they Disney knows they can get the money if they price those higher. But usually anytime after that first party and during the first, maybe month of the event, you're going to see lower prices than you're going to see on either side. Each night, the Disney hotels set up free campfires for you to hang around in the evenings. And most of the time, those campfires also come with free marshmallows that you can roasty toasty over the open flames.

Select hotels will also have s'mores fixins on hand, but they'll more than likely cost you extra. So, if you want to make a Disney s'more, but you don't want to potentially overpay for Disney's bags of little graham crackers and chocolate pieces, just buy your own fixins ahead of time and bring them down to the campfire with you. By the way, it might also be worth it to bring your own marshmallows and skewers, especially if you're staying at the Fort Wilderness Cabins and Campgrounds. I just got an email from one of our viewers saying that they were actually charged for marshmallows and skewers there on their last visit. So, Fort Wilderness might not be the freebie that it used to be in terms of marshmallows.

Tutto Italia inside Epcot has a newer VIP fireworks offering. For $179 per person, you're going to get a private table up against one of those giant lounge windows giving you a beautiful vantage point of Luminous The Symphony of Us. Now, this package also comes with a sommelier selected champagne or cocktail, tasting tower of savory bites, an assortment of sweets on a Spaceship Earth inspired glass. But, let's not overlook that price tag. $179 per person is a lot of money.

And if you're able to book a regular reservation at Tutto Italia leading up to the fireworks time, you might not get the up close window seats and tower of treats, but you still more than likely will get a table with some great fireworks views for a whole lot less money because it's a pretty small location and pretty much every table in there is stadium seating towards the fireworks. So, just a heads up on that. If all you really want to do is see the fireworks and just like get a cocktail, then $179 bucks per person probably not worth it. Now, where are all my Air Canada frequent flyers cuz this hack is for you? Yeah, suddenly Disney's doing all these deals with Canada to try to get Canadians back to the parks.

And Air Canada's loyalty program has a new perk where you can get a private VIP viewing of Luminous over in the China Pavilion for some reason, who knows, just by using your Aeroplan points. To get the perk, you'll need to redeem 1,000 Aeroplan points at least 15 business days before your Epcot visit. You'll receive an email with a VIP access code to present at check-in at Epcot, but you'll also need a valid ID with you to redeem the code as well. The VIP experience is offered every Saturday starting May 2026 and until January 2027. No matter which Disney owned hotel you decide to book, you're going to be given the early entry theme park perk to use wherever you want, giving you a 30-minute head start in any park.

That being said, some Disney hotels make using this early entry perk a whole lot easier than others. Our preferred hotels to stay at if we're going to be using early entry are the ones along the Skyliner route like Pop Century, Art of Animation, Caribbean Beach, Riviera, Boardwalk Inn, Yacht Club, or Beach Club. And these will give you a range of hotel price categories to choose from as well as easy or even direct access to both Hollywood Studios and Epcot. Yep, early entry is going to get you into those parks before the general public, but that doesn't mean you're the only group with access to this perk. Hundreds of other people are going to be using early entry, too, and that can feel intimidating when everybody's crowded around the park's front gates making you question why you woke up so early to try this hotel hack in the first place cuz this is pandemonium.

But trust me when I say the early entry crowds look much worse than they actually are. Once y'all are let into the park, the crowds are going to break up a bit and give you the chance to make a bee line to the ride you want to knock out first, but believe me, that park is going to absorb all of those crowds really, really quickly, and you're going to be able to get in line with a short wait. Disney's special offers page tends to always have some sort of hotel savings going on, right? We always tell you don't ever pay full price for anything when it comes to Disney hotels. But don't let that lull you into false sense of security.

Discounted hotel rooms at Disney do sell out, especially for the value resorts. So, when you do find a discount that works for you and you see that it's still available on the days you're planning to visit, don't let the discount pass you by. Grab it while you can. You can always modify or cancel if you need to. You might as well lock it in in the meantime.

Getting a piece of artwork signed by an artist you really admire during Epcot's Festival of the Arts is a very special thing. But if your schedule just won't allow for a January or February Disney World vacation whenever this festival is happening, just know that visiting artists frequently pop up in the Art of Disney store to answer questions and sign their work for free. So, it's always worth checking and seeing if an artist that you want to meet will be paying the shopping district a visit during your next trip. We're going to party around Disney Springs like it's your birthday because if it is your birthday, you can pick up a lot of freebies around the shopping district during your leveling up in life day. For example, you can claim your free Starbucks drink here if you've signed up for a free Starbucks account.

You can normally get a free cookie at Summer House on the Lake, though this is subject to change. Never hurts to check though. You can get a free pretzel from Wetzel's Pretzels as part of their free rewards program, and best of all, that free pretzel's good to redeem up to 30 days after your birthday, too. You can get a free pre-selected beauty product from Sephora as part of their free rewards program, and you can typically choose between a free brownie or cake on your birthday over at Earl of Sandwich. I know, freebies and loyalty program deals are heaps and bounds of fun, and we talk about even more opportunities like this in our DFB Guide to Walt Disney World Dining, where we basically gather them all together into one chapter for you.

All of those loyalty programs, all of those freebies, they're all in there. You can find that guide on dfbstore.com right now, and remember, it's 100% money-back guarantee, so why not try it out? Monsters Inc. Laugh Floor in Magic Kingdom is built on audience participation, so no two shows play out the same. They have got the same beats, sure, but you guys are the ones who make it unique.

If you want to be lightly bullied by cartoon monsters in a room full of strangers for a few minutes, there's no foolproof way to help you accomplish this feat, but if you swing by the theater towards the end of the night when the crowds are lower, you can definitely improve your chances. Okay, you don't want to forget to reapply your sunscreen every couple of hours when you are in Disney World. Otherwise, you will be be goodbye to non-crispy skin and hello to sunburn city. Setting an alarm on your phone can be a great way to remind you to reapply, reapply, reapply, but I also find those little UV detection stickers that you can place on your skin pretty helpful cuz they're going to disappear when your sunscreen is still on and working, but then they'll turn bright purple when your sunscreen starts to fade, warning you that it's time to stop what you're doing and slather up again. If you really want a great view of the Disney Starlight Parade in Magic Kingdom, a pretty good view of the Happily Ever After fireworks, and you're desperate to beat the exiting crowds out of the park, I recommend staking out your viewing location near Town Square Theater on Main Street USA about 30 to 45 minutes before things start kicking off for the nights.

Assuming you're watching the 9:00 p.m. showing of the parade before fireworks, the closer you get to the park exit for your viewing spot, the easier it is to turn and escape the moment the fireworks are over. But even if you wait around to watch the second parade after the fireworks, this area still works well for a quick escape. New Disney locations means new backdrops for your future photo ops. So, if you're trying to find a list of new places to snap a quick photo in front of to post on the gram, here's where you're going to want to go.

First, the Sorcerer Mickey hat has returned to Hollywood Studios. You can get a picture in front of it over at the new Walt Disney Studios courtyard. Two, if you hop on board the Wildlife Express train in Animal Kingdom on or after May 26th, you'll be able to go and take pictures of Bluey and Bingo for the first time ever in Disney World. And three, it's been so long since we've been able to take a photo in front of Big Thunder Mountain Railroad without it being covered by walls and scaffoldings. So, take advantage of this long-awaited reunion with a quick photo shoot.

And four, back in Hollywood Studios again, now that the Muppets are taking over Rock 'n' Roller Coaster, you'll have to get a picture with their freshly painted super far out and groovy limo and giant guitar. Split hotel stays are very cool. They give you the option to book one Disney hotel for the start of your vacation like at a more affordable value resort and then cap off your trip at a different Disney resort in a deluxe resort room maybe so you can live in the lap of Disney resort luxury without paying the full luxury price for a longer stay. If you do book a split stay Disney will even help transport your luggage between hotels for you. But split stays are even better if you plan them around Disney's free water park perk, right?

During cool kids summer May 26th to September 8th you can get free, yep f r e e free water park tickets to one of the Disney water parks on your hotel check-in day. But if you're doing a split stay that means technically you're going to have two hotel check-in days which means two free water park ticket days to check out both Typhoon Lagoon and Blizzard Beach instead of choosing one or the other. Okay, yeah, it might be hard to justify paying for a Typhoon Lagoon water park ticket when you can just get a free one if you're already staying at a Disney owned hotel this summer. But what if I told you that a ticket purchase could grant you access to the water park after hours for a night of glow in the dark fun, all you care to enjoy snacks and way shorter slide lines, plus characters in the water park, and also no sunburns. H2O Glow After Hours is an extra ticketed event which will be making its comeback on select dates from June 2nd to September 5th and held at Typhoon Lagoon only.

Not only does this event have shorter water ride lines and unlimited Mickey ice cream bars and popcorn and soft drinks, but you'll also be able to participate in a DJ dance party, try exclusive premium snacks for an extra cost, and meet rare Disney characters like Powerline Max, Chip and Dale as the Rescue Rangers, Scrooge McDuck, Launchpad McQuack, and Donald and Daisy in their tropical gear. I'm sorry, what? Skip two of the coolest Epcot pavilions? That's not a hack, AJ, that's bad advice. Now, I hear ya and I'm not saying to skip them completely, but if you're at Epcot for a festival and you're trying to taste your way around said festival once the food booths start to open up at 11:00 a.m., people will start to crowd around the first booths that they come across, which in this case is usually those end cap countries.

That's why you may want to pass those up for now and hit up the food booths at some of the other countries maybe way back in the middle with shorter lines in the meantime and then backtrack to Mexico and Canada a little later on when their food lines hopefully calm down a little bit. I know leaning on tech to help you plan your big trip can be intimidating at times, but let the My Disney Experience app help you out here because it wants to help you, especially when it comes to making your advanced dining reservations. In recent years, the MDE app enhanced its dining reservation availability calendar. Very, very cool. I know it sounds boring, but it's very, very cool.

And it lets you see available reservations for a single restaurant across multiple dates up to 10 days at a time. This is like mind-blowing for those of us who have been checking like one time on one date at a time and then reloading the whole system. So to do this brilliant and wonderful thing, open the app, select reserved dining, add your party size, and select the date you want to start seeing dining reservations for. There'll be a few more questions for you to answer if you want a more specific range of restaurants to choose from, but once you answer those, you'll be presented with all the time options within your chosen dates, time frame, and park destinations, giving you way more options to choose from than just taking it day by day by day. Y'all, we could pretty much make this video into a full Disney World dining hacks video, but instead of limiting you to just 50 dining points, I'm going to do you one better.

Over on the DFB Store website, that's dfbstore.com, we've got a full DFB Guide to Walt Disney World dining, which is multiple guidebooks worth of dining hacks after dining hacks after dining hacks for you to study up on. If you want to check it out yourself, head to dfbstore.com after this and don't forget to type in code YouTube if you want a discount before you check out. Cuz why wouldn't you? Not to mention, it's a fun and beautiful guide to browse with your fam that the whole DFB team and I take a lot of pride in updating with the latest Disney dining tips, tricks, and recommendations all year long. Both Tron and Flight of Passage use a motorcycle style setup, right?

Where you'll straddle your seat and ride the ride like you would a bike. And yeah, that can be kind of awkward as is, but what makes this arrangement real uncomfy is that safety bar that springs up against your back to hold you in place. Now, I appreciate it being there, but it can get tight. Before the safety bar comes up, here's a little trick that I use all the time. Puff out your stomach, like fill it up with air while that safety bar locks into place.

Once it's locked, you can blow out the air and have a little more room to breathe. Remember, if the Tron Light Cycles don't work out for you, there are modified seats you can request instead once you're at the front of the line. These modified seats work like a normal coaster vehicle where you'll sit upright instead of leaning forward bicycle style. You'll be able to determine if the bike seats are a right fit for you thanks to sample seats stationed at the entrance of the queue. They also have these for Flight of Passage so you can test them out before you even get in line.

From 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. and again from 7:00 to 8:00, Gideon's Bakehouse in Disney Springs gives you the option to top their gooey, warm, half-pound chocolate chip cookies with a local artisan ice cream. But hitting up hot cookie hour isn't as easy as just getting in line and walking right on into the building, right? Gideon's racks up those pretty long waits.

Sometimes there's even virtual queues for the majority of the day. And if that queue doesn't have you returning until after hot cookie time is over, well, you'll still get the cookie, but your cookie might be awfully lonely without a scoop of vanilla bean ice cream to keep it company. As soon as you arrive in Disney Springs, check out Gideon's line situation. If you see it's at a standby line, you're probably safe to get in line 20 to 30-ish minutes before hot cookie hour begins. But if there's a virtual queue being used and you're looking at the wait being hours instead of minutes, ask the Gideon's employee out front about the best way to align your time with hot cookie hour.

While they may not be able to give you an exact estimated time that you should return or be in line by, they can help you figure out the best plan based on the crowds and demand that they've already been seeing that day. Hot cookie hour might only be available for a limited time each day at Gideon's, but you know what could be available all day long? An ice cream snack hack. When you order a nitro cold brew, politely ask the cast members if they'll be able to add a scoop of malted vanilla ice cream to make it into a float. Disclaimer here though, secret menu items change frequently, especially when word gets out and the demand gets greater.

And while our DFB reporters were able to make this hack work on our last Gideon's visit, off-menu items are never a guarantee. That's why they're secret menu items in the first place. So, have a plan B in order ready to go just in case. Hard truth incoming. Mobile order return windows aren't always immediate, especially when the demand is extremely high for them.

So, if you're trying to order a meal around peak dining times, you could run into your earliest return windows being two to three hours later than you would have liked them to be. So, here's what you're going to do if the mobile order return windows aren't working in your hangry group's favor. Go ahead and take whatever time is currently being offered and process the order anyway. Once your order's placed, you'll see the option to modify your return time. By choosing this option, you may come to find earlier return slots that weren't showing up before now that you're already in the system.

And don't worry, if you just can't wait any longer, you can always cancel your order before your return time hits. What items will keep your group occupied in line? Here are a few things to keep in mind. Bitsy's are these Tamagotchi-like digital toys that respond to swipes and tilts and taps. Plus, you can unlock up to 30 different Disney characters, which will give your kiddo a challenge to reach while they're biting their time in lines.

The free Heads Up app you can download on your phone is a classic. Sometimes it's almost even more entertaining to point out all the folks in line playing Heads Up. I'm always bringing my Kindle along with me everywhere. That way I can wait for a ride and work on my Goodreads goals. All win.

You can buy a fidget toys in bulk over on Amazon, which will give your kid a variety of options to mess around with, including poppets, spinners, fidget cubes with various levers and buttons, you name it. And let's not forget about the all-important snacks. Packing things like animal crackers, goldfish, other easy-to-munch items can be a great way to keep your little ones occupied and help tide them over until your next meal. Picture this. You're super hyped up and ready for a wild ride through the cosmos with the Guardians of the Galaxy, but right after you get teleported inside the main pre-show room, thanks, cosmic generator, you're suddenly swept along with the crowd and headed in the same direction towards the right.

So, why the sudden synchronized dash? Is this all part of the story? Nah, this is just where the doors will open post pre-show, leading you towards the ride vehicle. So, everyone's kind of racing to get to the front of the coaster line ASAP. If you're one of those folks who wants to try to cut down your wait time, too, don't wait to go towards the right after the teleportation happens.

Just start off towards the right and then move calmly toward the doors after the teleportation takes place. However, if you're not in a hurry and you don't really want to deal with the sudden mob of folks crowding toward the right-hand side, then go left for the pre-show instead to keep others from invading your personal bubble. So, you've finally hyped yourself up to ride an attraction like Tower of Terror, Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind, and you get to the front of the line, and all of a sudden, the panic kicks in, and you want to back out. It happens to the best of us. In fact, we've got a handful of DFB reporters who have a fear of heights, which is why we're so thankful Disney has chicken exits that allow you to back out of an attraction at the last minute if you need to.

Don't let the term chicken exit fool you. I know a lot of folks out there might see that term as unsavory, but really these are exits are just an alternative escape route that can be used for any reason you might decide to not go on a ride. Just flag down a cast member once you're almost to the boarding station, and let them know you're tapping out. They'll lead you to the chicken exit where you can release a huge sigh of relief. Believe me, I've used them many times.

Although, I do think it's a little weird that the Tower of Terror chicken exit is an elevator. Sometimes all the Dramamine in the world just isn't enough to keep the woozies away when you're riding a screen-based 3D ride like Flight of Passage or Star Tours. So, if you're someone who's prone to 3D motion sickness, and you start feeling your equilibrium being thrown off during the ride, make sure to take off your 3D glasses immediately and close your eyes. It's also important to try to focus on one point on the screen instead of looking around too much at everything, which could just make the motion sickness worse from the get-go. And motion sickness isn't the only way to feel really uncomfortable on a ride.

While we're excited about Rock 'n' Roller Coaster starring the Muppets, this is pretty much going to be the same Rock 'n' Roller Coaster we know, love, and have been relentlessly beaten up by in the past. If you're planning on checking out this updated coaster during your next Hollywood Studios visit, but you don't really want the pounding headache that might come along after you do a few loop-de-loops in the dark, try requesting a seat toward the front of the limo instead of the back since the momentum of the coaster jostles you around way more when you're in the back row. If you're going to watch something like Zootopia Better Together in Animal Kingdom or Mickey's PhilharMagic in Magic Kingdom, don't rush to be right in front of those theater doors because you're not going to want to be one of the first people in the theater in this case. If you got a big crowd with you waiting to get into the show, then cast members are going to make you move down to fill in all the available seats. So, that means the first people in are going to be forced to sit all the way at the far end of the theater.

So, if you want to sit in the center of one of the rows for a better view, follow a line of folks who are already filling up a row and trail behind them so you can try to secure those prime seats without being asked to move. If you're an annual pass holder, then you need to know about VIP pass holder days. These special annual pass holder days happen during the summer. They're actually happening right now per the release of this video and run until July 31st. And during this time, Disney releases tons of perks just for those who have a Disney World annual pass, including increased discounts, freebies, and exclusive opportunities.

My favorite is that pass holder lounge in the Old Marrakesh Restaurant in the Morocco Pavilion in Epcot. There's nothing better than having a chilled-out lounge with AC and free water and and tea and snacks and stuff to just go escape the absolutely overwhelming heat of Florida in the summer. Single Rider is one of our go-to ways to skip big chunks of select ride lines without having to pay to skip the line, right? Does it break up your group? Yes.

Does it always guarantee you a shorter wait? No. But in our personal experience, Single Rider has been more of a hit for us rather than a miss lately. So, this might be worth that gamble for your group, too, if you're on a time crunch and you don't have Lightning Lanes. If a restaurant that operates on Disney grounds isn't owned by Disney directly, which you'll find a lot of over at Disney Springs, you'll more than likely be able to make reservations for that restaurant not just through the My Disney Experience app, but on the OpenTable website, too.

So, why should you consider using OpenTable as a reliable plan B? Because you could find more reservation time slots for certain popular restaurants that might not be showing up on the My Disney Experience app. Select restaurants found on OpenTable might even let you book reservations for them earlier than Disney will let you, so before that 60-day window. Definitely check this out. So, this is just the beginning of the Disney World hacks that we want to share with you.

So, if you're ready for an overabundance of secrets and hacks and vacation advice and all that other good stuff, check out one of our other Disney World videos next, like 15 things you didn't know you could do in Disney World. And be sure to download that free Lightning Lane guide if you haven't already over at disneyfoodblog.com/multipass. Thanks for listening, everyone, and thanks for watching. As always, this is AJ for Disney Food Blog, and we'll see you real soon.
