# 50 Easy Tricks for Your 2026 Disney World Trip

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqBtieFCy7o&t=84s&pp=ygUpZmlyZXdvcmtzIGF0IGRpc25leSB3b3JsZCB0aXBzIGFuZCB0cmlja3M%3D
Channel: DFBGuide
Duration: 40:57
Published: 2026-02-02
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:15:21.637066+00:00

## Transcript

This is going to be your year to stop overthinking Disney World trips and start using easy tricks to make those upcoming visits awesome. Hey everybody, it's AJ for Disney Food Blog. If you're already drowning when it comes to planning your Disney World vacation, let's do a hard reset. Sit down, take a deep breath in, let it out slowly, and now, let us show you how easy a Disney World vacation can actually be when you follow these tips. If you're going to Magic Kingdom this year, this advice is for you.

Magic Kingdom is currently working on getting Cinderella Castle painted back to her classic color scheme of blue and white, and we love that for her. As Imagineers work on giving Cindy's place a fresh makeover, cranes and construction will surround the castle in the morning starting around January 28th. But Disney does lower the cranes to have them out of sight by noon each day, so you'll still be able to take that family photo without worrying about doing any extra photo shopping when you get home. Disney's complimentary transportation services are going to come to your rescue if you need them, too. The Disney World Resorts are free for anyone to visit.

Those are their hotels. That's what they call their hotels. But if you're not staying as a guest at one of these hotels, you're not going to be allowed to park there unless you've made advanced dining reservations for one of the hotels table service restaurants. Sitdown restaurants only. Now, don't gamble on this rule and just assume that maybe a cast member at the parking lot gates is going to bend the rules for you because more than likely they won't and they are cracking down on this more than we've ever seen.

Your best bet when it comes to resort hopping is to jump on a Disney bus, boat, Montreal, or Skyliner to take you where you want to go. If you choose the bus route, just keep in mind that hotel buses do not have dedicated shuttles that take you to other Disney hotels. So, you'll want to either get on a specific resort bus from one of the parks or get on a specific resort bus from Disney Springs, which might be an easier option if you're not planning on hitting up a park during your planned out resort hopping day. So, Lightning Lanes are what Disney calls their pay to skip the ride line service. There's a lot to unpack about Lightning Lanes.

We've even got a whole free guide that gives you the ins and outs if you're interested. Just grab it from disneyfoodblog.com/multipass when you get the chance. But the most important thing I can tell you about the multipass part of Lightning Lanes is to grab the earliest return times you can find. You're going to be allowed to pre-seelelect up to three multiass lightning lanes before your visit. either 3 days before your park day if you're staying at an off-propy hotel or 7 days before your Disney hotel check-in.

And then during your park day, you'll be allowed to hold up to three Lightning lanes all day long. Meaning once you scan in for your first one, you can select another ride return time immediately. See where I'm coming from? The earlier Lightning Lane return times you can find and use, the more Lightning Lanes you're bound to collect in a single day. You don't want to get into the park and your first Lightning Lane isn't until like 300 p.m., right?

Because then you can't book anymore. So, make sure you have one easy to get Lightning Lane there at 9:00 a.m. as soon as the park opens and then as soon as you get in line for that one, you can book another. Multipass and single pass both give you lightning lanes, but single pass is more of your allocart option for the most popular rides in each park. Single pass lightning lanes will cost you per ride per person.

Unlike multi pass, where you'll want to get the earliest return times possible in order to collect more lightning lanes throughout the day, it's not a bad idea to schedule single passes a little later on to make them feel more worth your money. Why? Well, wait times in the morning are often lower than people expect, which is why I'm telling you to wake up earlier to get there to actually ride the rides. Early in the day, many guests are either making a beline toward other rides or still arriving at the park. That usually keeps standby weights more manageable during the first part of the morning for those popular rides.

So, buying a Lightning Lane early often means paying for time you could have waited in line for a ride without much stress. Anyways, also with Single Pass, you can schedule your time. So, that's basically set in stone and can't change once you book it. So, go ahead and book a little bit later in the day so you can use those early time frames to either get the most out of your multipass lightning lane purchase or like I said, wait in just the regular standby lines cuz they'll be shorter then. Now, I absolutely love this next tip and it's one that you're not going to hear from anybody else.

Not from people who only go to Disney World every once in a while. Okay, if you want to see Maleficent blow fire, this is where you need to stand during the parade. So, you know that giant steampunk Maleficent dragon who blows real fire along the Festival of Fantasy parade route in Magic Kingdom? Well, she doesn't always release those flames. She only does it in specific locations because it's unsafe to do it in other locations.

Maleficent starts breathing fire around where Pico's Bill Talltale in a cafe is inside Frontier Land. But then she stops when she arrives in Liberty Square since there are a lot of trees in that area that Disney really doesn't want to catch a flame on accident. She'll start showing off her fire breathing skills again after she crosses the bridge leading to Cinderella Castle. So, when she's there in the hub, so if seeing Maleficent do her thing is on your priority list, make a note of where she's actually going to release those flames instead of getting your hopes up and getting disappointed. Now, back in December, we noticed that some new construction permits for Disney Springs seem to be hinting at a potential second location for the mega popular Gideon's Bake House.

And we were almost correct. But the truth of this permit is actually 10 times better than what we were speculating. Yep. The creators of Gideon's Bake House are getting ready to open a second business endeavor inside Disney Springs, but this time it's a more savory option. According to Gideon's official social media accounts, the new location will be called Six Ravens, which will specialize in all new savory offerings in partnership with local Orlando culinary superstars.

some of whom are James and Julie Petrous who of course have Ravenous Pig and Polite Pig and Caskin Larter and a bunch of other really great restaurants. Now, one of the items that'll be featured here are the coffins, which as the Gideon Social Post describes are the original term for an old school handpie. We are hyped to see what else is going to be offered at this new storefront, but we don't have any exact dates for its opening just yet. All we know is that it's slated to open later on in 2026. For the most part, the Disney World parks are pretty easy to navigate, but there's so much stuff packed into each park that on the day you arrive, things can get overwhelming if you're trying to track down everything right on the spot.

Not to mention, just not having a general sense of where certain attractions and restaurants are in the parks might mean you plan a park day that has you running all over the place instead of just knocking out offerings that could be way closer to one another whenever you're in a general area. Easy solution, though. Pull up the park maps ahead of your trip, either online or on the My Disney Experience app, which is a nifty little gadget we'll be talking about more. And don't forget to grab a physical park map when you enter one of the parks, too. If you still need help tracking things down, but you don't necessarily want to be staring at your phone all day long, that park map is a great thing to keep an eye on while you're waiting in line or taking a breather, and then you can get your bearings more easily.

Still lost on your park day? No worries. Just ask a cast member to point you in the right direction and they will happily do so. Oh, another awesome awesome tip here. For most of us, the sudden whoosh of the toilet can be startling, but it's not really going to keep us from finishing up and going about our day in those public restrooms in Disney World.

But with younger kids who are new to this whole potty training ordeal, an automatic flushing toilet can be terrifying. It may be a good idea to show younger kids these types of automatic toilets ahead of time. just at a store or restaurant that you know also has them. That way, they're not just becoming acquainted with these new fangled mechanics when they reach the parks. And you may also want to pack post-it notes.

Strange correlation? Not really. Post-it notes are a good way to cover the toilet sensors to prevent them from flushing before they're supposed to. That way, kids don't have to panic over the toilet not allowing them to finish their session before they're done and ready to move on. Just remember to take the post-it off the toilet sensor after your kid's done and wash your hands.

When I've had a long exhausting morning of rushing around parks, the soda goblin in me knows that I'm going to need two to three diet cokes approximately around lunchtime in order to have the energy and willpower to keep going. Not every fast food restaurant in Disney World, though, has unlimited soda refills, which is a crying shame. But if you're on the hunt for a quick service spot that does, here's an easy list for you to rely on. In Hollywood Studios, you'll find free soda refill stations at Backlat Express and ABC Commissary. In Epcot, refill stations are located at Sunshine Seasons, Regal Eagle Smokehouse, and Connections Eater and Cafe.

And in Animal Kingdom, your only option now that Restaurantosaurus is down for the count will be Satuli Canteen. All right, since I already name dropped the My Disney Experience app, I'm going to go ahead and introduce it fully. I can't emphasize it enough. The My Disney Experience app is going to be your key to efficiency during your Disney World vacation. And we all love efficiency, don't we?

This free app is going to hold your theme park tickets. It'll keep your Lightning Lanes and give you the ability to make more Lightning Lane selections throughout the day. It'll show you your memory maker photos. It'll grant you mobile ordering capabilities. It's where you do mobile checkout.

Again, more on that later. It'll unlock your hotel room door. It is vital. So, just download it or at least have a designated person in your travel party download it and be the tech expert of your group. All in all, it's important to familiarize yourself with this app ahead of time.

It holds a ton of functions that you'll want to use during your vacation, some of which we'll mention on later in this video. So, download it, play with it, check out the maps loaded on it, and just befriend it in general. Personally, I enjoy looking at the wait times for rides on the My Disney Experience app, even when I'm not at the parks for research purposes and because I'm nosy. If you already have the My Disney Experience app, that's great. Now, you got to make sure it's updated.

You know how sometimes your phone prompts you to make an update and you'll press the update later option cuz you want to scroll through Instagram before bed and you really don't want to wait around for your phone to do whatever it needs to do to become its best self? Yeah. Don't wait around to update your My Disney Experience app, especially if you're going to Disney World soon. This is something that catches me off guard regularly, both at Disney and Universal. When I don't have those apps completely updated and ready to go, I'm missing out on a bunch of stuff that maybe was just released in the park or just updated in the park, etc.

So, if you open up your My Disney Experience app and you see a little pop-up message first thing telling you you need to update your app in order to take advantage of its new features, go ahead and do it. These updates tend to fix glitches, improve app performance, make sure all the times and features are right in your app, and it's going to provide you with more convenient ways to organize your trip. You're not going to want to miss them, I promise. So, just go ahead and update. Okay, I know FOMO has you in its grasp, but don't let any internet scalpers convince you that you need to buy Epcot Festival merch for double what it's worth just cuz you can't pick up any merch in person this year.

The Disney Store website will often post festival exclusive mini ears and spirit jerseys and loungefly bags on their site. So, go and see if one of the festival goodies that you've been eyeballing has made its way onto the Disney Store before you start to panic. This might also be a really good way to purchase festival loot after your trip if there's something that you really wanted but knew you wouldn't be able to fit in your carry-on or personal item for your flight back home. Not all discounts on Disney World's special offers page can be combined with other offers. In fact, the majority of special offers can't be combined.

But there is one in particular that you can grab for your 2026 vacation that can be combined with most of the other Disney discounts you'll see on the site, and that's the 2026 kids dining plan offer. When you purchase a vacation package, which bundles your hotel room and your park tickets for you and your kids, and you tack on a Disney dining plan with your package, then each guest in your group between the ages of three and nine will get their dining plan for free. As always, make sure to read up on the details of any discounts you're thinking about booking before you lock them in. This is probably more of a reminder for me than anybody, cuz I am so not a morning person, which is why when I do have to be a morning person on my Disney days, I'm bound to forget something back in my hotel room as I'm stumbling about trying to get ready and wake up at the same time. Do yourself a favor if you're not a morning person and pack your park bag the night before with everything that you know you're going to need for the next day, like refillable water bottles and sunscreen, a change of clothes if needed, etc., etc.

Might even be handy to make a park bag checklist before your trip, like maybe even while you're in the car or on the plane, killing time so you have something to refer to each night. By packing up your park bag the night before, not only will you not have any crunch time to worry about, but you can use your morning time as more of a scan time to double check you've got everything versus trying to get everything packed and situated while you're still half asleep and jumping around trying to put your socks on so you can rush over to the bus stop in the next 2 minutes. Magic Kingdom feels like it should be the park to kick off your entire Disney World trip. I mean, that's the one with Cinderella Castle, etc. But maybe you should slam on the brakes and choose Animal Kingdom first for your epic 2026 vacation, especially if you have kiddos, just to make things a whole lot easier on them.

If you're traveling with kids who've never been to Disney World before, starting in Magic Kingdom can be super overwhelming. There are tons of rides, lots of characters, and a lot of moments that could become a full-on sensory overload. But Animal Kingdom is way chill. Actually, it's the most chill, especially right now, and a huge chunk of it is actually under construction, while PBLO Asparanza is in the works, slated to open in 2027. There are still rides and top tier shows to check out here, but the whole vibe of this park is way less get up and go and more take things at your speed while meeting a few cute animals along the way.

And I say that this is for your kids, but honestly, it might be overwhelming to start in Magic Kingdom for you, too, if you're new to Disney World. So, head to Animal Kingdom first and soak up the vibes and understand kind of what a Disney World theme park is like, and then you can head to Magic Kingdom once you feel like you've got your feet under you. Disney World is not a stagnant place. Several changes are going to happen all across property throughout this year, which means your Disney World knowledge that you picked up last month or even last week could already be outdated before you arrive. Believe me, this is the life I lead.

Now, you probably don't have the time to become completely dedicated to every little change and update that happens around Disney World, but that's a big part of what we do here at DFB. We keep you in the loop, and that's why you follow along with us. So, be sure to sign up for our free DFB newsletter ASAP. That way, we can tell you about the latest Disney World discounts, the closures, the reopenings, maybe new restaurants, maybe ride updates, etc., just as soon as they hit the scene. And if you want to see what events are scheduled to happen in Disney World for the whole year, download the link to our free 12month Disney World calendar by scanning the QR code you see on the screen now or clicking the link in the description for Disneyfoodblog.com/wdwcal after this.

We update that calendar constantly throughout the year, so you can always head over and see what the latest is. Now, back to your kids if you've got them. Kids are going to love Disney any time of year, but they'll especially love Disney World in the summer when Cool Kids summer swings back into motion. This is a limited time event where families will be able to experience exclusive events and shows, character meet and greets, and more, all with younger kids in mind. In 2026, Cool Kids Summer will feature Bluey and Bingo for the first time ever over in Animal Kingdom.

The return of Goofy Core at Communicore Hall in Epcot. Disney Junior Mickey Mouse Clubhouse Live in Hollywood Studios. That'll be brand new. And a brand new Toy Story Pals character experience inside the Diamond Horseshoe in Magic Kingdom. Lots and lots and lots to experience this summer.

So, as long as you have time to kill and ride lines, you might as well be productive. While you're waiting in line for your first ride of the day, go ahead and mobile order some lunch for your group. That way, you can secure a food pickup time frame early on instead of waiting until the very last second to do so when pickup times could be all booked up until later on in the day. Not ideal when you're already hangry. I know it can be hard to commit to a certain quick service pickup time when lunch is still hours away, but you can always change your mind and adjust plans later once your order is placed.

And if it's not already time to pick it up, you can select change arrival window to adjust your chosen pickup time for an earlier or later return time. This is super handy to have if you are maybe caught up in a ride line, it's taking a little bit longer, etc., etc. Easy as that. It's not easy to stop worrying about your kids. It's downright impossible, even in a place like Disney, especially in a place like Disney.

That's why I've been a big fan of the Air Tags lately. In case you don't know what that is, Apple Air Tags are small devices that use Bluetooth to connect to your iPhone or iPad. You can use the Find My app on your device to track down where your Air Tag is currently, which is super helpful if you tend to misplace items, or if you just want to make sure you got an eye on your kid or your luggage at all times. There are a couple of ways your kids can wear an Air Tag. For instance, there are those neat Disney bracelets and necklaces on Amazon that can hold them.

Many even come in cute Disney designs, and bonus are water resistant, too. Another option, though, is to attach them to their shoes. These little Air Tag cases can slide right onto a Velcro strap on a tennis shoe, making them very convenient and helping you secure your peace of mind. Now, I've been using my Air Tags lately cuz my kid's a little bit older to track my luggage. And sure enough, when I lost my luggage on the way to my Orlando book signing, I was able to figure out as soon as it landed in Orlando and get over to the airport immediately to pick it up before they even called me.

For the most part, wearing the right attire for a Disney restaurant is going to be super easy. It's more the no shirt, no shoes, no service mentality. However, if you're dining at one of Disney's nicer restaurants like Tumi Tay and Epcot or California Grill in the Contemporary Resort, these restaurants do require you to wear more of an upscale aesthetic. They do have dress codes, but a fancy meal after a big park day doesn't have to be a whole lot of effort. In fact, if you wear the right outfit at the start of the day, you might not have to do any bathroom quick changes whatsoever.

What I like to do when I know I'll be spending a day in the parks followed by eating somewhere fancy for dinner is wear one of those breathable t-shirt dresses with a pair of slip shorts underneath to avoid chafing. Of course, easy. Those are perfectly acceptable when you get to the restaurant. And if you want more of a shorts and shirt aesthetic, then khaki shorts maybe a polo shirt also make for good and comfy park wear, but still double as more of a dressed up option for a nicer nighttime meal. Sometimes it's hard to pinpoint when to take a Disney World vacation during a time when the parks aren't just completely packed with people, but in 2026, these will probably be your best bets.

Last week of February and into early March is going to put you right in between Epcot festivals, which means no festival, but probably lower crowds right before spring break kicks off. The end of April and early May also puts you in an in between seasons limbo right after spring break and right before summer vacation. Mid August and into September puts you in the parks during back to school season. And that is when I can guarantee you it will be quiet. And early to mid November will start off the Christmas season, but we'll still not have all the holiday offerings available until after Thanksgiving, which is when the real holiday crowds start to pick up.

This goes back to what I was talking about earlier. Animal Kingdom is a pretty chill park. It's also a park that doesn't have a whole lot of rides for you to conquer in a single day. At least not at the moment. Honestly, you can get a lot of those rides done in Animal Kingdom in the first few hours, depending on the crowd levels.

You might even be able to get them all knocked out before lunch. So, save your money and invest in Lightning Lanes that'll be more worthwhile in 2026. Like, Magic Kingdom's probably our top choice since it has the most rides that are multipass compatible. And then, Hollywood Studios is our second choice for buying Lightning Lanes. If you're looking to stay in a Disney World hotel that's recently gotten a refresh, these are the hotels you want to consider for your 2026 vacation, so you can stay in pretty much brand new rooms.

Pop Century's room renovations are slated to wrap up sometime in February 2026. Not to mention, Pop Century's lobby and food court have recently had major overhauls, too. Porter's Riverside is still in big reurb mode when it comes to their various hotel rooms, but lots of rooms are already upgraded and updated and ready for you to book in the Alligator Bayou area. Animal Kingdom Lodge, Kadani Village is currently undergoing refurbishments, but all Kadani rooms should be updated and good to go by May 2026. Now, the resorts can never guarantee that you'll get to stay in one of these updated rooms.

It's always a good idea to make a room request upon check-in to increase your chances of locking them in. If you're staying at a value resort like Pop Century or one of Disney's all-star resorts, upgrading to a preferred room might seem like a waste of an extra $20 per night, but it can actually make a huge difference. These preferred rooms are closer to the main lobby, the dining areas, and transportation, which means less walking after long park days. And believe me, these value resorts are massively spread out. So being closer to the main hotel areas is going to be something you're super grateful for after a full day of exploring Magic Kingdom when your feet are screaming and your kids are screaming and you are internally screaming because the sooner you can get back to your room, the better.

Now, this is a relatively new tip and I absolutely love it. So focus in. You don't have to pay for a theme park ticket or book character dining reservations or even wait in a super long line if you want to meet some of Disney's most popular characters. All you have to do is time out your Disney resort visits just right. In the past, being able to see Disney characters pop up around the hotels was a nice hidden treat.

It didn't happen very much except for over at Fort Wilderness where you always have the Chip andale campfire sing along every night unless it gets rained out. But lately, many Disney resorts now have scheduled character appearances, so you don't have to gamble on whether or not you'll be visiting a resort when one of these free meet and greets are taking place. There's still always going to be a gamble regarding which characters you see at which Disney hotels. But considering you don't have to purchase a park ticket to meet these friends, I'd say whoever decides to show up that day is a win-win. Not everyone's going to want to use this trick, but it's still a good trick to use if you want to check off as many rides as you can during your Magic Kingdom morning.

If you're planning to arrive at Magic Kingdom right at or before park opening, you'll notice that many guests are going to power walk straight to Seven Dwarf's Mine Train in Fantasy Land. You don't have to follow suit. Fantasy Land actually works better if you zig when everyone else zags. Attractions like Peter Pan's Flight, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, Under the Sea: Journey of the Little Mermaid, and Even It's a Small World, can have much more reasonable weights first thing in the morning, meaning you can knock out multiple rides, one ride after the other, while a large chunk of the crowd is still standing in one very long Seven Dwarfs line. Q-ine burnout is real, and it doesn't take long to set in.

So, if you're absolutely exhausted by Disney's lines, don't settle for waiting in massive lines at the gift shops, too. Merchandise mobile checkout gives you the option to pay for your Disney gift shop items through the My Disney Experience app instead of waiting in a physical line to secure those purchases. Here's how it's done. After you tap on the three bar button towards the bottom of your app screen, you'll choose the merchandise checkout option. Now, you'll be asked to select a store.

Not every theme park store has this option available, but the flagship stores as well as some of the newer stores do. Once you select the shop you're in, just use your phone to scan the barcodes of anything you want to buy. Once you're finished shopping, just hit the checkout button to pay for them. Note, you will need to have all your payment info already linked on your My Disney Experience account beforehand. After you've paid, you'll see a QR code pop up, and this is what you'll take to the cast member at the door.

They'll scan the code to verify that you've paid for your purchases, and then you're good to go, while everybody else is probably still waiting in line. Stocking up on your own supply of Disney gift cards before your big trip is one of my favorite souvenir and money-saving hacks. If you purchase Disney gift cards ahead of your visit at places where you have a membership discount, then you'll actually be spending money to get more Disney money. Gift cards can be used all around Disney World, even when it comes to purchasing hotel rooms, multi pass, food, you name it. But purchasing gift cards at big box stores like Sam's Club, Target, BJ's Wholesale, and Costco might wind up saving you between 5 and 10% on each gift card purchase.

Even if you don't use membership programs to help you save on Disney gift card purchases, you can still use gift cards as a solid budgeting strategy to help you keep track of how much you're spending around the park. Since each purchase you make with a Disney gift card will come with a remaining total on the bottom of your receipt. There will be those Disney days or really any days in your parenthood era where your baby just won't want to be put down. And that can do a real number on your arms and back, especially when you're racking up thousands of steps around the parks. That's why a lot of our DFB parents in the group have invested in hip seat carriers.

I love these. They actually were just coming out with the prototypes of these when my kid was a baby, and I got one ASAP, and I wore it all around New York City to carry him around. Now, with a hipsy carrier, you don't have to deal with a full-on carrier across your chest when it's unbearably hot out, and it's still going to be fairly easy to navigate around Disney's crowds, but then you don't have to have the whole weight of that kiddo on your personal self, and it makes it so much easier to carry them around. How can one go about requesting a certain seat on a ride? Easy.

Just ask a cast member before it's your turn to board. While it's not always a for sure guarantee you're going to be able to get on the ride row or in the seat you're hoping for. More often than not, cast members will be able to accommodate your request. You just might have to wait a little bit longer to get that seat you really, really want. So, which ride rows should you be requesting?

The very front of Disney's coasters will give you a smoother, kind of slower ride through, while the very back of them will be more thrilling. The top row of Saurin Around the World in Epcot will keep the dangling feet out of your view during the ride. And of course, we always like to request section B of the ride because then you're right in the middle and you're not kind of on either side where things can look a little weird on the screen. And depending on your preference when it comes to the soak factor on Tiana's Bayou Adventure in Magic Kingdom, the back row tends to keep you drier, while the front row is going to bring you face to face with a full wave of water after that final log flume drop. If y'all been following DFB for at least the past 6 months, if not longer, then you've probably heard me oo and awe over the prime rib sliders at Cruise Cup Lounge in Yach Club Resort.

Well, the fate of my prime rib sliders is once again hazy since the Cruise Cup lounge is slated to close for Refurb on February 23rd and won't reopen until May. If you're going to Disney World super soon, you're going to want to order these before they're gone. But I am crossing my fingers and my toes and everything else that I can cross that they will come back after these reurbs are made, though I know that's no guarantee. After all, they didn't bring them back after CO until we made enough noise that they finally did. Following those Cruise Cup closures, the attached restaurant, Yachtsman Steakhouse, will close in May for its own restaurant refresh, which probably won't start up until Cruise Cup reopens, but we'll just have to wait and see in order to know for sure.

Now, same rules apply at table service restaurants. You can always request a certain seat or table when you're checking in at the restaurant's host stand. Like the rides, cast members will do their best to accommodate your request, but there is no guarantee that they're going to be able to fulfill it. And I will say this about both rides and restaurants. If things are really busy and the cast members look pretty stressed, just leave it be and take where you're seated and just don't even worry about the request.

If things are looking a little hectily, kind of read the room. You know what I'm saying? But if things are calm and chill and the cast member smiling, then there is definitely the okay to go to request whatever seat you would like. Maybe you didn't book any table service reservations, but then you decide the day of your visit that yeah, a sitdown meal at Magic Kingdom sounds pretty good. When you're on the My Disney Experience app, select the plus sign at the bottom of the screen and choose the check dining availability option that shows up at the top of the toggled list.

After you plug in your party size, find the join a walkup wait list button that'll automatically pop up. Pressing this button will reveal a full list of restaurants near you that have immediate seating available. Maybe your dining reservation got moved. Or maybe you're stuck in traffic on the weekend and you're questioning why you're going to Disney on the weekend in the first place. Been there, done that.

We'll probably do it again. Whatever the reason may be, your OG Lightning Lane selection return window just might not mesh with your plans anymore. But you're not stuck with your original choices. You can modify both the time and the actual ride as long as there is availability. Just open up the My Disney Experience app, find your Lightning Lane reservation, and look for the modify option.

From there, you can choose a different time slot or even swap to a completely different ride if you want. Disney's Memory Maker will give you access to all the Photo Pass pictures you take during your theme park visits, but that's a pricey add-on. It costs around $185 to $210 on top of everything else you're paying for this trip. On the Disney World website, you do have the option to pay for individual Photo Pass photos for a whole lot less money, around 20 bucks each instead of 200. Or you can always ask a Photo Pass cast member to take your family's photo in front of the castle or other iconic Disney park centerpiece while using your own phone for free and they'll still do a great job.

Multipass Lightning Lanes are going to be your best bet when it comes to bypassing the longest ride lines for as many rides as possible. However, if you want to save your cash and choose a third free ride queue option instead, a select few Disney World rides do have single rider lines, which could significantly lower your wait time, but they will separate your ride group in the process most likely. Cuz what single rider lines do is fill in all the empty seats around the parties that are sitting sitting together. So, that's going to have to be a sacrifice you're willing to make if you want to cut down on your weight time for no extra cost. Single rider cues are currently available at Rock and Roller Coaster, Millennium Falcon, Smugglers Run, and Rise the Resistance in Hollywood Studios.

Test Track and Remy's Ratatouille Adventure in Epcot and Expedition Everest in Animal Kingdom. Now, the best time to get in line for Disney's most popular rides is during the fireworks. I know, I know it's hard to purposefully choose to miss Happily Ever After in Magic Kingdom, and I don't really recommend skipping the show if you've never seen it before, unless fireworks and crowds just aren't your thing. I totally get that. But when the majority of guests are gathering around for these end of night shows, that's your chance to jump into a much shorter ride line than what you might have seen during the day.

On the opposite side of things, let's say that Disney's fireworks shows and the Epcot concert series are top priority experiences for you. Now, that's when a dining or dessert package could be worth the splurge. Magic Kingdom, Epcot, and Hollywood Studios each have dining packages that you can lock in for a meal and VIP views of the popular park shows. Magic Kingdom's packages vary a little bit since they're more about endless desserts versus getting you a full meal like the other dining package options that you'll find in Hollywood Studios and Epcot. Check out our DFB page, All About Dining Packages, with reserved viewing after this for more details.

I'll go ahead and link the post in the description for you. There are three ways you can unlock your Disney hotel room. You can use your Magic Band, you can use Magic Mobile on your phone, or you can use a physical key card. Now, if you decide to use Magic Bands, maybe that you paid for online or at one of the Disney gift shops on site, or you decide to use Magic Mobile, which which is a free option, compliments of Disney's free My Disney Experience app, then technically you can skip over the front desk, check in online, and just head straight up to your room once you get that ever magical text telling you your room is ready. But technology is not flawless.

Not by a long shot. So, it's not unheard of for a person to try scanning into their room using their Magic Band or Magic mobile device and nothing happens. You get that dreaded like little yellow light or the red light. There's an easy solution to this, though. Even if you were hoping to just skip the hotel lobby lines altogether, it may still be worth visiting the front desk at some point on your first day just so you can pick up a physical key card just as a backup plan.

But something else I will say in terms of Magic Mobile is absolutely reboot the app on your phone. So delete it, reboot it, relog in, and that might work. Also, make sure your app is updated. But by that time, you could have gone down to the front desk and gotten a key card anyway. So, you clicked on today's video for a reason.

Don't worry, we're not done. We still have 15 more points to cover for you, but you wanted someone to rely on to tell you the easiest Disney World advice that won't let you down. So, if you come here hoping for a clear-cut answer for what Disney restaurants you should prioritize, I can't quite do that for you because everyone's taste and dining preferences is different and there are literally hundreds of restaurants. But instead, I'm going to introduce you to the easiest way to make a dining decision, and that's with our DFB guide to Walt Disney World dining. This digital companion is split up into multiple guides, even a water park focused one to help you plan every meal, reveal each restaurant's bestkept secrets, and provide you with our best Disney dining budgeting tips.

We go to every restaurant every year. We update our review. We get new photos. We get new information for you. It's all in the guide and it's very, very, very useful.

Now, before you check it out, be sure to type in code YouTube for a discount on your purchase, and you can find it over at dfbstore.com. Each Disney World park has a baby care center, and if you're someone traveling with a teenytiny kiddo, you're going to want to use this place whenever you can. Baby care centers are fully staffed with cast members ready and willing to assist Disney World guests with infants. You'll find private nursing rooms, changing rooms, feeding areas with high chairs, kids-siz potties for the potty training littles, and a shop with essential baby supplies like diapers, baby food, wipes, clothing, and more. And best of all, these centers are free for guests with littles to use.

But by the way, you don't have to have a little. These are fine to use if you have anybody with you who needs a little bit of quiet, a little bit of calm. These are great places to bring friends and family members who are maybe in sensory overload. Several of Disney's Good Neighbor hotels, which are hotels that aren't owned by Disney, but still partner with Disney, are less expensive to stay at, yet they have the same hotel perks as the Disney owned resorts like Early Theme Park Entry for instance. But in order to access those hotel perks, you're going to need to make sure Disney associates your Good Neighbor Hotel booking with your My Disney Experience account.

Simply go to the Disney World website, click on the My Disney Experience tab, select the My Plans and Tickets option from the drop-own menu, and log into your account. From there, click on the resort hotel circle, and then choose to link a reservation. You're going to be asked to type in your last name and your hotel confirmation number. Hey Disney is a complimentary device available in every Disney World hotel room that offers custom voice assistance to guests. This service works a lot like Siri or Alexa.

by saying the phrase, "Hey, Disney," out loud in your room. This little gadget can help hook you up with room amenities, guest services, weather info, you name it. Plus, it brings along a lot of extra Disney magic to your room, making things a lot more fun and interactive. Now, I mostly use this to set alarms to wake up since it's easier than setting alarms on my phone. I know setting alarms on a phone isn't hard.

That's how easy this device is to use. It's how I do everything at home, too. And if you're annoyed at all by the default, hey Disney voice, it's okay. You can admit it. You can always use the traditional alexa voice instead.

Disney Springs restaurants have the upper hand when it comes to advanced dining reservations cuz a lot of them can also be booked through the open table website since many of those restaurants are owned and operated by third parties and not Disney directly. So, if you're coming up dry for reservations for say the Edison or the Boat House or another one of those Disney Springs restaurants we love to brag about, then check Open Table Next for reservations that might not have been an option over on your My Disney Experience app. And don't forget, some restaurants have reservations that open up before that 60-day window over on Open Table. So, check it out. It's not a bad idea to hold off on big souvenir purchases until the end of the day.

But if you need that latest gym shore figurine right this second, then you can always rent a locker up toward the front of the park to stow away your purchases until you're ready to pick them up at the end of the day. There's also a second locker option toward the back of the park near the international gateway in Epcot, but the lockers back here will be fairly standard and not have a jumbo option that'll store more or really big stuff for you. Typically, when you go to a table service or signature meal, your table will be cleaned off before you're seated. But that's not always the case when it comes to quick services cuz those cycle through so fast it's hard for the cast members to get there sometimes, especially during peak peak peak eating times because that's when you just sort of swoop in and grab a table as someone's leaving, right? And that could mean you got to sit in leftover crumbs and sticky soda residue.

The easiest solution here is just to bring along those wet wipes with you. Just give it a wipe down and you're all set to go. By the way, I use wet wipes for a bunch of other stuff when I'm in the parks, but that's one of the most logical ones. Struggling to find an open seat to enjoy your tachos from Woody's Lunchbox or your Ronto Wrap from Ronto Roers? Well, guess what?

More seating has just recently opened up between Toy Story Land and Galaxy's Edge. It's not a huge seating area, but hey, the more tables and chairs we can get, the better our odds of actually finding an outdoor place to sit and enjoy our snacks. Plus, there are some extra shaded areas that have been added to this section, too. Which, if you've ever walked through Toy Story Land in the heat of the day, you know what a big deal that is. We were really starting to wonder if the Garden View Lounge inside Grand Fian was ever going to reopen since it had been closed since the 2020 shutdown.

But on March 19th, 2026, this tea room will finally offer up afternoon tea again. And this time, it'll happen in a more Alice and Wonderland themed way. Unfortunately, the prices for this afternoon tea are looking a little steep. Get it? Steep tea.

I know, Bria's so smart. You'll have to pay 79 bucks per adult and 49 per child for this afternoon tea service, which if you think about it, is still cheaper than the Roses of Gold afternoon tea at Cake Bake Shop over at the Boardwalk Inn. That said, if you're really just wanting some afternoon tea without breaking the bank, you can still book regular old Cake Bake reservations and order a pot of tea for 10 bucks. Disney Springs has closed one of its main parking garages, the Lime Garage, to give it some muchneeded TLC. Now, this closure is going to be continuing on until February 11th, but on February 12th to the 26th, it'll temporarily reopen to accommodate those President's Day crowds.

Then, it'll close again starting February 17th to finish the rest of its reurb. And it isn't slated to reopen until March 13th after that. But after March, it should be open for good. No more construction necessary. That said, if you're going to Disney Springs in the near future and you want to park in a parking garage instead of in one of the shopping districts open lots, aim for the orange garage instead, closest to the west side of Disney Springs.

You can also park in the grapefruit garage, which is just behind Lime Garage, but you will have to take a skyway path over the highway, and it feels like it's about 20 m. Now, wasn't that easy? Now that you're hopefully feeling way less intimidated by your upcoming Disney World trip, go ahead and check out one of our other Disney World videos, like the things I wish I knew before booking my 2026 Disney World trip. And don't forget to download our free Disney World 12-month calendar today over at disneyfoodblog.com/wdwal. Thanks for listening everyone and thanks for watching.

As always, this is AJ for Disney Food Blog and we'll see you real soon.
