# Disney's Animal Kingdom RIDES & ATTRACTIONS - 2026 - Walt Disney World

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MU9SyrlQGFo
Channel: Theme Park 101
Duration: 10:39
Published: 2025-12-06
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:31:06.500319+00:00

## Chapters

- 0:00 Disney's Animal Kingdom
- 0:48 Oasis
- 1:05 Discovery Island
- 2:30 Pandora - The World of Avatar
- 3:35 Africa
- 5:22 Rafiki's Planet Watch
- 6:17 Asia
- 7:52 Dinoland U.S.A.
- 8:19 COMING SOON

## Transcript

Welcome to Disney's Animal Kingdom, a wild adventure where nature meets imagination. This incredible zoological theme park is home to hundreds of animal species and breathtaking landscapes, all built around Walt Disney's original philosophy of conservation. From lush jungles and exotic wildlife to unforgettable attractions and immersive storytelling, Animal Kingdom isn't just a theme park. It's a living, breathing journey where adventure truly comes alive. Hello there.

I'm Mike and welcome to Theme Park 101. That's right. Today we'll be taking a look at all the rides, shows, and attractions in Disney's Animal Kingdom at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida. The park is currently going through a major transformation. So, stick around until the end of the video as we take a sneak peek at what will be coming to the amazing Animal Kingdom over the next few years.

We begin at the Oasis, the opening land that takes you through the beautiful entrance gate and straight into a lush jungle filled with overgrown pathways packed with hidden details and a number of different animal enclosures, including anteaters, wild hogs, and a selection of tropical birds. All paths lead to the main hub area of the park, Discovery Island, which is home to Animal Kingdom's icon, the amazing Tree of Life. This beautiful handcarved tree features over 300 different animals depicted in the trunk and roots where you can head out on the Discovery Island trails to see all the intricate details up close. This centrallylo island has plenty of shopping and dining locations as well as walkways to all the other lands in the park. Under the tree of life is the first attraction in this guide, the brand new 3D show Zootopia Better Zoover, where you join Nick and Judy on an adventure through the different lands of Zootopia as they try to stop the destruction of the Zoover Celebration.

Filled with all your favorite characters and special effects, including water, smoke, smells, and audio animatronics, this is a great new addition to the park. There are lots of other things to do on Discovery Island, including meeting Mickey and Minnie in their explorer outfits at the Adventurous Outpost, or grab a photo with Moana and Zootopia characters at their special meet and greet locations at various times throughout the day. Younger guests can become wilderness explorers by collecting a handbook, then completing different challenges and earning badges at the various stations throughout the park. You can also dance along to the Viva Gaya street band that perform funky Caribbean tunes in their multiple colorful performances next to the Discovery Trading Company shopping location. It's time to depart Discovery Island as we head over to the next land, the magical Pandora, the world of Avatar.

Once you take in the sights of the incredible floating mountains, you'll notice lots of different places to explore, all featuring the amazing and colorful alien plant life that can be found throughout Pandora. There are two fantastic attractions in the land. Starting with a Na'vi River Journey, a dark ride on water that takes you through the forest of Pandora, showcasing the native animals and bioluminescent flora. It's a nice relaxing ride that also features the incredible shaman of songs that will send you into a dreamy trance, making it perfect for guests of all ages. Next up is the unforgettable Avatar Flight of Passage, a 3D flying simulator which allows you to take flight on your very own native mountain banshee and soar across the landscapes of Pandora.

It uses some of the best technology that Disney has ever created, making this one of the top attractions in the whole of Walt Disney World. If you get the chance, don't forget to visit Pandora at night as it transforms into an incredible glowing wonderland that feels like a completely different world. You can either return through Discovery Island, or head along the Discovery River to the next amazing land, Africa, where you enter Harambe, the incredibly themed market town filled with the hustle and bustle of restaurants and shops, as well as a few awesome attractions. We start with the fantastic Kilamanjaro Safaris, where you'll set off on an expedition to see lots of beautiful African wildlife in the savannah, rivers, and rocky hills. The area of this attraction is actually bigger than the whole of the Magic Kingdom as you get to observe hippos, rhinos, giraffes, and of course, the mighty lions.

As there is so much to look out for, you can actually ride this safari multiple times and still find something new to see. And we suggest riding at their feeding times during dawn and dusk, making it the best chance to watch the most animal activity. Next up is the wonderful show Festival of the Lion King. All set in an amazing round theater that features a variety of puppetry, acrobatics, fire, and aerial dancing, as well as all the popular songs from the original Lion King movie, making it a performance that can't be missed. It's definitely one of the best shows at any of the Disney parks and is a crowd favorite.

So, make sure you arrive at least 20 minutes before showtimes to avoid disappointment. Another amazing thing about Disney's Animal Kingdom are, of course, the animals appearing throughout the park. And within Africa, you can head to the Gorilla Falls Exploration Trail where you can take a nice stroll away from the busier areas of the park and spot some of the animals from Kilamanjarro Safaris as well as other enclosures featuring gorillas, mircats, and flamingos along with a special avery showcasing a variety of colorful exotic African birds. In the main village, you may come across the Harambe Village street band or the Tam Tam drummers as they deliver thrilling performances filled with lots of dancing and live music. Also located in Africa is the amazing Rafiki's Planet Watch, where you'll need to hop on the Wildlife Express train that takes you to the special outpost that focuses on Disney's work with animal conservation and protection of different endangered species.

You can meet and pet some adorable animals of the fun affection section that features some kitty friendly goats and other domesticated species. At the conservation station, you can find some rare animals on display, as well as a veterinary examination room, which allows you to watch and communicate with some of the animal experts. You can also enjoy the animation experience, where a talented cast member teaches you how to draw a popular Disney character, and you'll learn how live animals can help to inspire your drawings. You may also have the chance to meet the popular characters, Timone and Rafiki, at different times throughout the day. Also, stick around until the end of the video to find out about a new exciting experience coming to Rafiki's Planet Watch in 2026.

We now head to one of my favorite areas of the park, the beautiful Asia. A land with theming that is nothing short of spectacular, and it really does feel like you're being transported across the globe. At the center of the land is a stunning mountain that is home to the amazing attraction Expedition Everest, a steel roller coaster that takes you on an adventure up, around, and into the famous peak as you search for the formidable Yeti. With plenty of surprises and incredible theming, this is a ride you won't want to miss. The other major attraction in Asia is the Cari River Rapids.

A fun family rapids ride that continues the message of conservation and environmental protection and showcases scenes about illegal logging and habitat destruction. It's also a great way to cool down on a hot summer's day with the many water features aiming to get you soaked. Next up is the Maharaja Jungle Trek. Another fun walking trail specializing in animals originating from Asian countries. The highlights include the beautiful tigers, Komodo dragons, and water buffalo with amazing theming that continues throughout.

The final attraction in Asia comes in the form of the show Fathered Friends in Flight, a fun and informative stage performance featuring a variety of exotic birds from around the world. The trainers do a wonderful job of showcasing these amazing feathered creatures as they display some of their hidden talents. On the outskirts of Asia, you'll be able to find Finding Nemo: The Big Blue and Beyond, a stage show housed in the theater of the wild. It showcases Nemo story with the use of colorful puppetry, animated backdrops, and live music, making it a great show that is perfect for guests of all ages. We now move on to the final Land in the Park, Dino Land USA.

And most likely, if you're watching this video in 2026, then it has already become extinct. At the moment, you'll still be able to enjoy the excellent dark ride, Dinosaur, as you travel back in time to the late Crestaceious period and are given a secret task to bring back one of the dinosaurs. So, make sure you ride this attraction one last time before it closes for good on February 1st, 2026. Which leads us nicely into its permanent replacement, as well as all the other attractions coming to the brand new original land, Tropical Americas. Dinoand USA will be transformed into Pueba Esparanza, a village set in a lush jungle and will feature three attractions along with all new dining and shopping experiences.

Dinosaur will be transforming into an old Mayan temple, which will be home to an allnew Indiana Jones-based dark ride similar to those found in Disneyland and Tokyo Disney Sea. You'll join Dr. Jones on an incredible adventure exploring the historic temple in search of a mystical creature. The other major attraction will be the first to be based on the popular animation in Kanto, where you'll be able to enter the Madreal family's casita as you join the story when Antonio receives his special gift to be able to communicate with animals. Not many details are known about this new attraction, but will most likely be a dark ride that will take you through a number of scenes around the house featuring all your favorite characters from the movie.

The final new attraction will be a unique carousel where a Disneyloving wood carver from the village has created this amazing handcarved spinning merrygoround where you'll be able to ride on one of your favorite Disney characters. We can't wait to experience this whole new land and construction is already well underway with a planned opening date in 2027. So look out for further official announcements which will give more details about this land and attractions throughout the year. There is also a brand new interactive experience coming to Rafiki's Planet Watch where you'll be able to meet, dance, and play with Blueie and Bingo from the hit Children's Series, which will be perfect for younger guests. Arriving in summer 2026, this will be the first time for the characters to feature at a Disney park and will be a great welcome addition.

So, that completes this guide for all the rides, shows, and attractions for the amazing Disney's Animal Kingdom. I hope you enjoyed the video and if you would like to help support then consider subscribing for free and take a look at my channel for attraction guides for lots of different theme parks around the world. If you want to know more about the other parks at Walt Disney World then check out these guide videos here. Thanks for watching and I'll see you next time on Theme Park 101. >>
