# Disney's Hollywood Studios RIDES & ATTRACTIONS - 2026 - Walt Disney World

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=47hYTmzP_RY
Channel: Theme Park 101
Duration: 11:17
Published: 2025-12-10
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:26:37.628182+00:00

## Chapters

- 0:00 Hollywood Studios
- 0:48 Hollywood Boulevard
- 1:32 Echo Lake
- 2:53 Grand Avenue
- 3:13 Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge
- 4:33 Toy Story Land
- 5:32 Pixar Plaza
- 5:50 Animation Courtyard
- 6:43 Sunset Boulevard
- 8:30 COMING SOON

## Transcript

Welcome to Disney's Hollywood Studios, where the magic of movies truly comes to life. Since opening in 1989 as Disney MGM Studios, this park has evolved from a working film and TV production lot into a full-scale celebration of Hollywood storytelling. You'll step into thrilling adventures, nostalgic classics, and vibrant immersive worlds where you become the star. Hello there, I'm Mike and welcome to Theme Park 101. That's right.

Today, we'll be taking a look at all the rides, shows, and attractions in Disney's Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida. Similar to the other parks at the resort, it is currently going through a major transformation. So, stick around until the end of the video as we take a sneak peek at what will be coming to the dazzling Hollywood Studios over the next few years. As you enter the park, you'll be transported into the glitz and glamour of Tinsel Town in the opening land, Hollywood Boulevard. This is where you'll be able to find the main merchandise store and a few dining options before coming to the amazing Chinese theater which is home to the awesome Mickey and Minnie's Runaway Railway, a huge dark ride that features Mickey, Minnie, and friends in a number of exciting scenes and is perfect for all the family to enjoy.

Look out for all the hidden secrets and storyline elements throughout the ride. And don't forget to come back at night to see the beautiful theater in its full colorful display, as well as watching the special nighttime show, Wonderful World of Animation that takes you on a journey through a collection of new classic and rarelyseen Disney animated films, all projected onto the amazing historic building. As we continue around the park, you'll come to the next land, Echo Lake, where we begin with a classic show, Indiana Jones epic stunt spectacular that recreates the scenes and liveaction stunts from the first Indiana Jones movie, Raiders of the Lost Ark. Still as popular as ever, this show has been running for over 30 years, and it continues to be just as exciting and enjoyable as ever. It also includes some audience participation, which gives you the chance to become part of the performance.

Echol Lake is also home to another popular show. For the first time in forever, a Frozen singalong celebration where fans of the movies will love joining Anna and Elsa in this all original ensemble showcasing all the characters and popular songs from the first movie. Continuing the Frozen theme, you'll also be able to meet the lovable snowman Olaf at Celebrity Spotlight located opposite the Backlot Express restaurant. Next door, you can catch a showing of vacation fun, an original animated short with Mickey and Minnie, and is perfect for fans of Mickey and Minnie's Runaway Railway. The final attraction in this area is Star Tours: The Adventure Continues, the classic 3D motion simulator ride that will take you on an amazing expedition through the worlds of Star Wars.

With scenes from all three trilogies and even popular TV shows like Ahsoka and The Mandalorian, no two rides are the same, which means it's perfect to reride over and over again. Carrying on clockwise around the park, we next come to Grand Avenue, which used to be home to the brilliant Muppets Vision 3D. This is the area of the park that is currently going through a major transformation. So, stick around until the end of the video for a sneak peek of a brand new land coming to Hollywood Studios as well as a Muppets based attraction coming in 2026. We now move on to one of the busiest areas of the park, Star Wars Galaxy's Edge.

the incredible immersive land that features amazing shopping and dining locations as well as two out of thisworld attractions. We begin with the fantastic Rise of the Resistance that is a mixture of a trackless dark ride, a walkthrough section, and a motion simulator that includes audio animatronics, huge practical sets, and an all round awesome story line. All of this results in one of the greatest Disney attractions ever created, and one you definitely won't want to miss. The other attraction in Galaxy's Edge is Millennium Falcon Smuggler's Run, the fun interactive motion simulator ride that gives six riders a chance to either be a pilot, a gunner, or an engineer as you go on an exciting undercover smuggling mission. To get the highest score, you'll need to work together to make sure everything goes to plan.

And coming later in the year is a whole new mission featuring the Mandalorian and Grou, which will debut on May 22nd, 2026. There are plenty of other things for you to explore within the land, like building your very own lightsaber or droid, trying the cocktails in Ogre's Cantina, and even playing the fun data pack game through the Play Disney Parks app that interacts with different elements throughout Galaxy's Edge. Also, keep an eye out for Kylo Ren and Stormtroopers as they are on the lookout for any sign of the resistance. We now depart Batu and move on to the bright and colorful Toy Story Land, where you'll be shrunk down into one of Andy's toys, and you'll be able to find all your favorite characters along with three fun attractions. First up is the family-friendly Slinky Dog Dash, the fun launch coaster that will shoot you around the land as you admire all the decorations and huge character statues.

This is the perfect step-up ride for the kids. And don't forget to try it at night as it transforms into a beautiful and colorful litup wonderland. Next up is Alien Swirling Saucers, a great spinning attraction that is also a perfect ride for all the family. You'll get whipped round and round while enjoying a pumping soundtrack and amazing theming before ending in a days. Finally, we have Toy Story Mania, the interactive 3D shooting gallery featuring all your favorite characters from the franchise.

Enjoy this battle against your family and friends to see who can get the highest score. And as a tip, keep a lookout for the high score items like the fox in the farm scene and the lava and meteor balloons on the volcano. We now head back to the main section of the park where you'll next come to Pixar Plaza, a small area dedicated to all the Pixar classics. Here is where you can meet a number of popular characters including Edna Mode from The Incredibles at the Edna Mode experience, as well as Joy and Sadness from Inside Out and many other Pixar pals. You'll next come to the former animation courtyard area that is also going through a major transformation.

So, you'll need to wait till the end of the video to find out what will be coming very soon. You can still enjoy Walt Disney Presents, a walkthrough mini museum exploring the life and legacy of Walt Disney through photos, models, and rare artifacts. The end of the exhibit is constantly changing, so it's always worth checking out. Plus, you may even get a sneak peek of an upcoming Disney film. Also within the gallery is the option to watch a short biographical film of Walt Disney named One Man's Dream, which is a must for any Disney fan.

You can still catch a performance of The Little Mermaid and musical adventure, a theatrical production of the popular animation that comes to life through amazing set pieces, cutting edge effects, puppetry, and live performers that includes all your favorite characters and songs, resulting in a magical show that shouldn't be missed. It's time to move on to the final area of the park, Sunset Boulevard, which continues the old school California vibe with a number of shopping and dining locations as well as some great attractions. We begin with the amazing The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror, the awesome drop ride that has all the characteristics of a perfect Disney park attraction. It includes an immersive storyline, incredible theming, an atmospheric queue area and pre-show, and just a great thrilling experience overall. Make sure you ride this elevator that travels directly to >> the Twilight Zone.

>> You can choose to watch one of the three amazing shows, starting with Beauty and the Beast live on stage, a production that features all the characters and songs from the classic animated film with the use of amazing live performers, beautiful costumes, and an energetic choreography which helps it to be one of the best shows at Walt Disney World. Next is Disney Villains Unhappily Ever After. Another great show that features a host of evildoers including Captain Hook, Koella Deville, and Maleficent with the use of the evil queen's magic mirror. They battle it out through songs as the audience chooses who is the most misunderstood villain, resulting in three alternate finales, making it a great unique performance. The final show is the park's nighttime spectacular, Fantasmic.

the classic outdoor musical filled with fireworks, pyrochnics, water effects, and of course, lots of Disney characters, performing all your favorite songs from a variety of movies, making it the perfect way to wrap up a great day at Disney's Hollywood Studios. The final attraction in this guide is Walt Disney World's first and only inverted ride, Rock and Roller Coaster, starring Aerosmith, an indoor launch coaster that includes three inversions and a rocking soundtrack. Unfortunately, this will be closing very soon in spring 2026, but fear not as it won't be going anywhere and will be rethemed into rock and roller coaster starring the Muppets. As you join Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem on a wild journey to one of their concerts, featuring a whole new soundtrack and pre-show along with plenty of your favorite Muppets characters, you can enjoy this new version of the popular coaster very soon in summer 2026.

As mentioned a number of times throughout the video, Hollywood Studios are making major changes throughout the park. Beginning with the transformation of the animation courtyard into the Walt Disney Studios, as it pays homage to the original home of Disney Animations in Burbank, California. Replacing Star Wars Launch Bay will be a whole new interactive experience, the magic of Disney animation that will bring some special characters to life, and you'll be able to sketch one of them in the return of a brand new animation experience. You'll be able to meet a number of characters in the special off-the- page attraction as you head through six unique scenes that all celebrate different departments of the studio with each having an incredible backdrop and character interaction. In the Drawn to Wonderland attraction, little ones will love this whimsical indoor playground, all themed to Mary Blair's original concept art of Alice in Wonderland.

The popular Disney Junior show will also make a return with a whole new refresh as Disney Junior Mickey Mouse Clubhouse that will include all new characters and songs perfect for the little ones. Construction for the Walt Disney Studios is already well underway and you won't have to wait too long as it's planned to open in summer 2026. The other major transformation in the park is the full closure of Grand Avenue as it will be replaced by a whole new Monsters Inc. Spaceeland where you'll be able to visit Monstropolis and join in the laughter to keep the city powered up. You'll be able to meet some of your favorite monsters before boarding the allnew attraction which will be Disney's first ever suspended coaster that will zoom you through the iconic door vault scene in what looks like a great family-friendly attraction.

Along with the indoor coaster will also be an allnew original theater show as well as plenty of new dining and shopping locations. There has been no official opening date, but many predict that we can expect to enter Monstropolis in 2028, and we can't wait for this land and all the other new attractions coming to the park over the next few years. So, that completes this guide for all the rides, shows, and attractions for the amazing Disney's Hollywood Studios. I hope you enjoyed the video, and if you would like to help support, then consider subscribing for free, and take a look at my channel for attraction guides for lots of different theme parks around the world. If you want to know more about the attractions at another park in Walt Disney World, then check out these guide videos here.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you next time on Theme Park 101.
