# Don't Use Lightning Lane Until You Watch This: Our Complete Guide for Disney World in 2026

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8yG6q0j4EJg
Channel: Ear Scouts
Duration: 1:03:14
Published: 2026-03-09
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:03:36.293188+00:00

## Transcript

In today's video, we're going to take you through the basics of all three flavors of Lightning Lane, and then we're going to bring you along with us for a full day in the parks where we'll show you step-by-step, screen-by-screen, how to make the most of these different Lightning Lane services on your day in the parks. We're going to show you which attractions you should book first and what things you should be thinking about as you decide what you want to book next so that you can build the perfect Disney World day for your crew. >> Excuse me, pardon me, coming through. Aren't you forgetting something rather important? Well, of course, Genie.

We're also going to show people how you can help them book even more Lightning Lanes in their day and have a great time doing it. >> Ding, ding, ding. We have a winner. If you need me, I'll be in the lamp. >> >> Hi-ho, everybody.

This is Rob with Ears Scouts. Over the years, we have made a ton of different Lightning Lane videos on a range of topics, but today's video is the most comprehensive Lightning Lane video we've ever made. We've got a ton of information to share, plus we've got a whole day of fun adventures ahead of us, so let's get to it. I find it's always best to begin at the beginning. So, let's start with the basics of Lightning Lane for those who've never used the service before.

A Lightning Lane is a special queue that is separate from the main standby queue, and it's available at most attractions at Walt Disney World. Now, this queue is going to offer you a much shorter wait, typically about 10 minutes, but the catch is you're going to need to typically pay for one of the different Lightning Lane services if you want to access those queues. Once you've gotten access to the Lightning Lane, you're just going to use your Magic Band, park ticket, hotel key card if you're staying at a Disney World Resort, or your MagicMobile enabled device to tap in at the touch point that you'll find at the entrance to the Lightning Lane. This is going to let the cast member there know that you have access to the Lightning Lane, and they'll let you on through. Now, it's important to note you do not need to purchase Lightning Lane to ride all of the different rides at Walt Disney World.

Those are all included at no additional charge with your park ticket. However, if you want to use the Lightning Lane service, that is going to be an additional charge, and you're going to have to pay for it for every person who wants to use the service in your group for every day that you want to use it. The only exception to that are little ones who are under the age of 3 years old. They don't even need a park ticket to enter the park, and they can accompany you into the Lightning Lane as long as you've paid for Lightning Lane at no additional charge. As I mentioned before, there are three flavors of Lightning Lane.

There's single pass, which lets you book access to a specific attraction for a specific window of time, and it's available currently at the five most popular rides here at Walt Disney World. Next, there's multi pass. Now, this allows you to book pretty much all of the other attractions at Walt Disney World other than those five that offer Lightning Lane, but the catch is you're going to really need to know how to use this service if you want to get the most out of it, and that's what we're going to be showing you primarily in this video. Finally, there is Lightning Lane Premier Pass. This is by far the most expensive form of Lightning Lane, but it's also the most powerful, the easiest to understand, and the simplest to use when you're here at the parks.

Since it's the easiest to understand, let's go ahead and start with Premier Pass. You do need to purchase Premier Pass for each park that you wish to use it in. The price of Premier Pass is going to change depending on which park you purchase it for and how busy the park is that day. Once you purchase this service for one of the four parks, you are allowed entrance into all of the attractions in that park that offer Lightning Lane. And that includes the attractions that are usually limited to single pass Lightning Lanes.

The catch is you can only access each of those Lightning Lanes once in your day and you're limited to just Lanes in that one park that you've purchased it for. So, if you purchase it for Magic Kingdom and then you decide to hop to Epcot, you would need to purchase Premier Pass again for Epcot if you wanted to use the service in that park. Now, the biggest benefit of Lightning Lane Premier Pass is you don't need to bother with booking each of the rides using the My Disney Experience app. When you come upon an attraction with a Lightning Lane, as long as you haven't entered it yet, you can just tap in and ride that ride without fiddling with the app at all. Now, this is obviously a huge advantage over the other forms of Lightning Lane and it's also most similar to how the ride skipping services work at most other theme parks.

Next, let's talk about Lightning Lane Single Pass. Currently, prices range from $10 to $25 depending on which ride you're booking and how busy it is in the park that day. When you purchase Lightning Lane Single Pass, you'll purchase it for a specific window of time for that attraction. It's a 1-hour window and you would need to experience the attraction during that hour. The good news is you can go in and swap this time for a different time assuming that there are other times available in the app.

It's also helpful to know that there usually is a little bit of a grace period in case you're running late to that single pass lightning lane. You can only purchase two single pass lightning lanes per person per day. And you can only book each of the attractions that are available through single pass lightning lane once per day. So, for example, you could purchase it for both Tron and Seven Dwarfs Mine Train in a single day, but you wouldn't be able to then add on Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind in the same day. Finally, there is the most popular flavor of lightning lane, and this is the one you are most likely to use on your next trip to Walt Disney World.

It is, of course, lightning lane multi pass. Lightning lane multi pass allows you to use the My Disney Experience app to book specific windows of time where you can access the lightning lane for an eligible attraction. This includes every ride and show at Walt Disney World that has a lightning lane available other than those five that are reserved for lightning lane single pass. >> >> Like premier pass, lightning lane multi pass's price is going to vary depending on the day and depending on which park you're starting your day in. But, unlike lightning lane premier pass, with a multi pass, once you use that lightning lane in your first park of the day, you're free to then use it in all four parks provided that you have a ticket that gives you access to those parks like an annual pass or a park hopper ticket.

Prices currently range from $20 to $45 per day at Magic Kingdom. Hollywood Studios ranges from $20 to $39. Epcot is currently $15 to $37. And Animal Kingdom is the least expensive, currently $15 to $35 per person per day. As with all the different lightning lane services, these prices are subject to change and they may be a little higher when you come to visit the park.

That said, even on the most expensive days at the most expensive park, $45 is a huge bargain when you compare it to the cost of Lightning Lane Premiere Pass. And it could potentially allow you to skip the standby queue for a whole bunch of rides across all four parks at Walt Disney World. The catch for this one is you definitely have to know how to use the service to get the most out of it. So, let's go ahead and go over the basics. You'll start with three slots that will allow you to book times for different attractions.

Initially, all three of those attractions must be in your first park of the day, but you'll be allowed to book rides and shows in the other parks once you tap in at your first attraction. All of the parks other than Animal Kingdom will have their attractions grouped into two tiers. In your first slot, you can book any attraction you want no matter which tier it's in, but in your other two slots, you will initially be limited to attractions that are in that second lower tier. The good news is just like with park hopping, this limitation goes away as soon as you tap in at your first attraction. Once you use a Lightning Lane in your first park, you are unlocked and all three slots can be used at any park and for any ride in any tier.

Whenever you redeem a Lightning Lane by tapping in at an attraction, that slot opens up and you can then book a new Lightning Lane in that slot. Also, whenever a Lightning Lane expires, meaning that you're past that window of time that you booked, you can then book another Lightning Lane in that slot. Later in this video, we'll show you how you can maybe still use that expired Lightning Lane, so stick around for that. And finally, you can choose to modify or cancel any of your existing Lightning Lanes, which would allow you to have a different ride booked into that slot or a different time slot for the ride that you already have booked. That last point is really important and it's the key to getting the most out of Lightning Lane Multi Pass because the earlier your time slot is, the sooner you can tap in and use that Lightning Lane and that then opens up that slot for you to book something else.

This is what allows you to get more things done in your Disney World day. Just like all the other forms of Lightning Lane, however, you can only book each attraction once per day using Lightning Lane Multi Pass. >> >> Finally, let's move on to the app because no matter which form of Lightning Lane you choose, the My Disney Experience app is where you're going to start. Now, the date that you're first eligible to purchase your Lightning Lane service is going to depend on the type of ticket you have and whether you're staying at one of these qualifying resort hotels. Now, if you're staying at one of these hotels, it doesn't matter what kind of ticket you have.

You're going to be able to start purchasing Lightning Lane and booking your attractions 7 days before your check-in day starting at 7:00 a.m. And best of all, you can book for the entire duration of your hotel stay up to a maximum of 2 weeks. So, that means if you were here on a 2-week vacation, you could actually start booking your final day of Lightning Lanes 3 weeks early and that means that you're going to get a huge jump on folks who are not able to purchase those Lightning Lanes until much closer to the day. Now, if you're not staying at one of those qualifying resort hotels, but you have a multi-day park ticket that is tied to a specific date, you would be able to start booking Lightning Lanes for the entire duration of that ticket starting at 7:00 a.m. 3 days before the first day you're eligible to enter the park.

If you have an annual pass or a different kind of ticket, say a single day ticket or one that's not tied to a date, for those tickets you typically need to make what's called park pass reservations in the app and then you'd be able to purchase lightning lane at 7:00 a.m. 3 days before your park pass. But, that means you're going to have to do that for every day that you visit one day at a time. Once you're eligible to purchase, just fire up the My Disney Experience app and right there in the main menu, you're going to see a button for Lightning Lane passes. Go ahead and tap on that.

First, it's going to ask you which flavor of Lightning Lane you want to purchase. Now, we're going to go ahead and tap on Lightning Lane multi-pass, but they all work more or less the same way. It's going to start by asking you what date you're purchasing Lightning Lane for and then it's going to ask you which park you're planning to visit. On the next screen, it's going to show you what your options are. If you're doing Lightning Lane multi-pass or single pass, it'll show you what's available to you.

If you were doing premier pass, however, it would just show you the four parks and let you see which one still have premier pass available. So, let's say we're choosing Lightning Lane multi-pass for Hollywood Studios. The next thing it's going to ask you is who all you want to purchase it for. Now, if you don't see someone in your party that you were planning to purchase it for in this list, it could mean that they don't yet have an eligible ticket. It could also mean that they're not linked to your account.

In order to do that, you just head over to the main menu and you look for your profile in that list. Once you tap on your profile, you would edit them using the family and friends tab. Once you select everyone who you want to purchase Lightning Lane for, the next screen is going to show you the attractions that are currently available to book. You'll notice that if you're in a park other than Animal Kingdom, there's going to be a list of Tier One attractions at the top where you can choose one, and then below that are going to be your list of Tier Two attractions. You could actually choose all Tier Two attractions if you wanted, but you're of course limited to just one Tier One initially.

Now, you might find that some attractions aren't currently available. There's no times available for them. The good news is these will likely come back into play before the date of your visit or on the date of your visit. So, don't worry if the ride you're most excited about riding is showing as not available. There's a very good chance, in fact, it's almost a certainty, it will come available again before you visit.

Once you've selected your initial three attractions, it's going to propose some different times for those attractions. Now, you may notice that these times will pretty much never overlap. You'll also see potentially some other things that you have planned in your day there, and it won't overlap with those either. So, if you see a time that seems to be available, but you tap on it and it won't let you get it, there's a good chance that it's overlapping with something you already have in your plans. Now, the good news is this overlapping restriction is going to go away on the day of your park visit starting at midnight.

So, if you did want to layer things up a little bit more, midnight the day of your visit is the moment you're going to be able to start doing that. If you don't see the times that you really want for the attractions you have picked, you can always tap back and choose some different attractions and hopefully find better times. Keep in mind, your goal is always to have at least something booked as soon as you're planning to visit the park because the sooner you tap in at something, the sooner you're going to unlock yourself and have the ability to have multiple Tier One attractions, or if you're planning to park hop, the ability to book attractions in other parks. Once you're happy with the attractions you have and the times you have for them, just go ahead and continue. From here on, it's pretty straightforward.

You're just going to put in your credit card information, you're going to pay for the service, and then you're all set. If you're able to purchase Lightning Lane for multiple days of your visit, say you're using one of those date-based multi-day tickets or you're staying at a resort hotel, the rule of thumb is you're going to want to start with the earliest days first. The reason for this is those days are going to be the most competitive, so you want to book those quickly. The closer you are to a day, the more people have access to book on that day, but the further you get out, fewer and fewer people are eligible to purchase Lightning Lane, so you'll have an easier time getting the attractions you're aiming for on those later days, so save those until last. You should also note that you can, theoretically, purchase multiple forms of Lightning Lane in the same day.

You could have, for example, Lightning Lane multi-pass at Magic Kingdom, have Lightning Lane single pass at Animal Kingdom for Flight of Passage, and over at Hollywood Studios for Rise of the Resistance, and you could even add in, if you wanted to get crazy, Lightning Lane Premier Pass over at Epcot, and then you'd have access to every attraction in that park, plus Guardians of the Galaxy. Now, this would, of course, be a really huge investment of money, and I'm not sure you would have time in a day to take advantage of all of those things, but if you wanted to, Disney will let you do it. For us, however, we're just going to aim to use both Lightning Lane single pass and Lightning Lane multi-pass in our park day. Right now, unfortunately, there are no single pass Lightning Lanes available. I'm actually booking this pretty close to the day of our visit, and those have already all sold out.

I'm not too worried that those attractions aren't available right now, though, because I know some tricks that are going to allow our old friend the Genie to help us book those attractions at the last minute. The way you're still able to grab those lightning lanes is because the people who currently have them booked sometimes will change their plans. This usually happens at the last minute, say the night before or the morning of. They'll decide maybe they're going to a different park that day or they want to sleep in. And when they modify their lightning lanes and choose something different, those initial lightning lanes come back into play.

And if you're watching and you know the tricks to grab those lightning lanes, you can still manage to set up the perfect start to your day even if you're purchasing lightning lane at the last minute. So for right now, I'm just going to go ahead and book the best stuff that I can get and then we will use the magic of editing to take you forward through space and time to the night before our big park day. And that is where we're going to make our final refinements and get set up for the perfect Disney day. Let's go. One of my favorite things about lightning lane is even if you wait until the last minute to grab it, you can still manage to book some of the most popular rides in Walt Disney World.

I can't tell you how many times I have been able to book Slinky Dog Dash, which is the most difficult to book lightning lane, I think in all of Disney World, on the night before or the morning of my trip. But if you want the very best chance of booking those really difficult to grab rides, it helps to have a little bit of magic on your side and that is where my old friend the Genie comes in. And as luck would have it, Genie is here visiting Epcot at this very moment. His magic lamp is right there, so let's go drop in on the Genie, say hello, and we'll share with you how you can use the Genie to make the most of your lightning lane day. Hello.

Anybody home? I guess the Genie's not home right now. Maybe he's out enjoying Epcot at the moment, but I do have some good news. And that is that I know a different way that you can summon the Genie, no matter where you are, from right within the app. We're going to start out on the main menu, and we're going to tap that button that says "My Plans".

Once we're inside, we're looking for a button that says "Add Preferences". This is what's going to summon our old friend, the Genie. Once he arrives, we're going to hit that big start now button, and then we're going to see a calendar. From there, we'll choose the date we're visiting the park, and we'll choose which park we're visiting. Next up, you're going to choose the people that you're planning for.

These are the folks that you want to include in your Lightning Lanes for the day. And after that, it's going to ask you what attractions you're most interested in. So, the traditional way of using this system is you just pick all the rides that you're interested in, and then the Genie would help you out by giving you suggestions of when you might want to do those attractions during your day. >> >> However, we're going to use the Genie's magic in a slightly different way. And for what we're going to do, we only want to pick the top two or three rides we're most interested in, because one of the magical things that the Genie can do is pin those rides to the top of your view when you're booking Lightning Lanes.

And there are certain attractions that are extremely difficult to grab if you don't have them pinned up there to the top of your view. By the time you scroll down and find them and tap through, someone else is going to have already grabbed that Lightning Lane. So, this little magical trick that the Genie can do of pinning rides to the top is huge, but it only helps you if there's only a few rides pinned up there, cuz once you got a whole list of rides, you're still scrolling through, and you're going to miss out on those rides that you really want. Once you've selected those few attractions that you're most interested in, go ahead and scroll to the bottom to continue. It's then going to ask you if you're interested in other things like princesses and such.

Don't select anything here because this would add more things to the top of your view, pin more attractions, and that's not what we want. We just want those ones that we picked to be pinned to the top. And now, my friends, we are all set to play a game that I like to call the Disney slots. If you only get one piece of information from this video, this is the one piece of information you want to have cuz it is going to make the biggest difference >> >> in your Lightning Lane day. If you think of the Lightning Lane system as a tool for booking rides, very specifically a tool for booking rides at the time that you want to ride them, you are going to find it to be a very frustrating system.

But, if you instead change your thinking, and instead of thinking of this as a tool, you think of it as a game. Let's say a slot machine game that you have on your phone. That simple change in your mindset, the change to how you approach Lightning Lane, is not only going to make you more successful at booking the rides you want, it's going to make the process a whole lot more fun. I talk to so many families who think of the Disney slots as like their favorite sport when they're here at Walt Disney World. It becomes like a competitive game to see who can book the most difficult to book rides when they're here on their vacation.

So, right now, I want to show you how that game is played, and more importantly, how you can win that game and have your best Disney World day ever. So, let's start with how you would play the slots when you're not yet in your Disney day. So, right now, we're preparing for our day tomorrow. So, let's go ahead and start with the Lightning Lanes that we have booked. You can view these from the My Plans section, or you can view them from the lightning lane section.

Both work. Tap on one of those lightning lanes and then a menu pops up and you're going to choose modify. At this point, you're going to see a screen where you have the ride that you have booked pinned there up at the top and under that are the different rides that you could book instead. Now that you've used the magic of the genie, those rides that you picked are pinned right there to the top of your view. So if you don't see any times popping up for the rides that you want, all you have to do is take your finger, slide it down the screen, and spin the reels on that Disney slot machine.

What it's doing now, it's going to go back and look and see what's available at that moment. And every time you spin the reels, there's a chance that the ride you're looking for is going to pop up. And if it does, you want to tap in as quickly as you can so that you can book it. It's important that you tap quickly though because you're not the only one playing the Disney slots. There're going to be lots of people doing it and for rides like Slinky Dog Dash, you definitely have to be quick on the trigger.

One thing that is really important to think about when you're still on the night before your visit, if you have already booked one tier one attraction and the attraction you're aiming for, in our case Slinky Dog Dash, is also a tier one attraction, it's important that you do not modify a tier two. The reason is you are locked right now. You can only have one tier one attraction. So let's say we were successful. Let's say we found Slinky Dog Dash while we were modifying one of our tier twos.

Unfortunately, what it would tell you if you tapped through quick enough is, "Sorry, you already have a tier one booked. You're limited to one tier one. You're out of luck." So what you want to make sure you're doing, you want to make sure you're modifying a tier one if what you're aiming for is a tier one. Now once you're on the day of your visit and you've unlocked yourself, this won't be a concern, but it is something you definitely want to think about if you haven't unlocked. If you're still on the night before your visit, cuz it can make the difference between getting the ride and getting super frustrated.

Next, I want to show you how you're going to change the way you play this game a little bit when you're here on the day of your visit. The biggest change is once you've booked an attraction, you're no longer going to want that one pinned up there at the top. So, you're going to want to choose something else. Thankfully, there's a really easy way to do that. You're going to see a little button up there at the top that says edit selections.

When you tap on that, it's going to let you change the attractions that you have pinned to the top, and you can repeat this process throughout the day to make sure you always have the most competitive things pinned right there to the top of your view. So, now that I've showed you how to play the Disney slots, I'm going to try my luck and see what rides I can win for our big Lightning Lane day tomorrow. I'll see you in the park. The big day is finally here. We have arrived at Disney's Hollywood Studios right as the park is opening.

We had pretty good luck with our initial Lightning Lane selections, mainly because we got the one ride I was most concerned about booking today, and that is Slinky Dog Dash. Let's take a look at what we've got right now. So, I like to think of Lightning Lanes as a hand of cards. You essentially have three cards in your hand, >> >> and your goal is to always have the best three cards for whatever your plan is for the day. Now, one of the things you need to think about though, as you put those cards in your hand, are which Lightning Lanes should you be booking first.

If a ride is on your must-do list, and it also happens to be one of the more popular Lightning Lanes, you're going to want to book that one first because as the day goes on, those popular lightning lanes are going to be harder and harder to get. In some cases with rides like Slinky Dog Dash, they're hard to get right from the very beginning. >> >> So, if you have the opportunity to book a ride like Slinky Dog Dash, you should go ahead and book it as quickly as possible. Even if it's for much later in the day, it's worth holding that card in your hand all day just because you don't know if you'll be able to get it otherwise. But if you don't come to Disney World all the time, how do you know which lightning lanes are going to be the ones that are difficult to grab?

Well, we've got you covered with that because we've done a lot of research on this. In addition to our experiences in the park, we also look at real-world data from sites like thrill-data.com, and we can see on those sites when lightning lanes run out for the day. We can also see when they come back into play and when they're pretty much gone for good. And that gives us an idea of which lightning lanes we should probably be booking first cuz it's going to be a lot harder to get them later. In order to make all this data easy to understand though, we came up with this cards analogy cuz like I said, I think of lightning lanes as being a hand of cards.

So, we use the card values to show you how difficult a ride is to book. In this park, the ace of the deck is Slinky Dog Dash. That's the hardest ride to book. We were also able to get a good early time for the queen in the deck, which is the new Little Mermaid show. It's not typical that you'll find shows that are face cards in the deck, but the exceptions to that are going to be shows that are brand new like the Little Mermaid show.

You'll also see over at Animal Kingdom, Zootopia is pretty high in the deck right now cuz that's a new show. The other lightning lane I booked is also a show, but you can see that one is a pretty low value card. It's not something that's difficult to book. The reason I booked this one is because I'm using it as what some people like to call a burner attraction. I don't love the name burner.

I think of it more as like a low hanging fruit, but it's essentially an attraction that's easy for you to book right when the park opens. So, it's not a super popular lightning lane, and so it's easier to grab it. And by tapping in right when the park opens, that is of course the thing that unlocks you, that lets you book multiple tier one attractions, that also lets you book in multiple parks. So, it's really important that you tap in somewhere as quickly as possible, and that's where people came up with this idea of a burner attraction. In some cases, people won't even ride the burner attraction.

They'll just tap in and move on with their day. I don't love that personally. I like to use every lightning lane that I book, but I will admit there are certain scenarios in which, because of my plans for the day, it does make more sense to just tap and go. In this case, however, I love this show. It's definitely on my must do list for the day.

I don't really have anything else I want to do first thing. So, let's go tap in at our very first lightning lane of the day. For the first time in forever, a Frozen Sing-Along Celebration. DEAD PARENTS, WHAT IS THIS? Bambi or The Lion King or Tarzan or Snow White or Cinderella or Beauty and the Beast or Lilo and Stitch or Big Hero 6 or The Little Mermaid or Aladdin or The Princess and the Frog or Raya and the Last Dragon or Encanto or maybe not Encanto.

I haven't seen it. A BEAR PROBABLY DIES ALL OF THOSE. YOU DON'T TALK ABOUT BRUNO. HE LIKES THAT STUFF. Let me tell you about my childhood.

>> WHAT A MAN, WHAT A MAN, WHAT A MAN, WHAT A MAN, WHAT A MIGHTY GOOD MAN is he. Yes, >> I'm uncomfortable. It happens. They lose Kristaps Porzingis in the process. NOTHING BEATS A JET2 HOLIDAY.

I am so glad we started our day with the Frozen Sing-Along. That show is just adorable. The other thing I love about that show, it has an element of improv to it. So, even if you've seen it before, you're going to see brand new jokes almost every time you go. That was a great way to start the day.

We've also timed things pretty well because it's almost time for me to go tap into my next Lightning Lane, which incidentally is another show. It's the Little Mermaid show. I do have a little bit of time before we head over there though to talk to you about what I did when I was inside the theater for Frozen Sing-Along. Whenever you're seeing a show, you're going to have some downtime there before the show starts. And that's a great time to go ahead and book your next Lightning Lane.

I hate having to stare at my app when I'm enjoying the park. So, I look for moments when I'm going to have some downtime anyway, and I use those moments to book my next Lightning Lanes. So, what are the things that you need to think about when you're choosing what to book next? Obviously, you want to start with those more popular attractions like we talked about, but there's another thing you want to think about too, and that is the flow of your day. If you're going to be in a certain area of the park, you probably want to try to book things that are near that so you don't spend your whole day crisscrossing.

So, even though Millennium Falcon Smugglers Run isn't really a high-value card, it is a ride that I want to ride today. It probably will have a pretty long wait, and it's not too far from Slinky Dog Dash, which is something that I have already booked a little bit later. So, I went ahead and grabbed a pretty good time for Smugglers Run. We'll be able to do that pretty much right after we we the Little Mermaid show, but I also want to point out you can see right now that we have Smugglers Run, which is a tier one attraction, and we also have Slinky Dog Dash. So, we currently now have the ability to have two tier one attractions because we tapped in somewhere.

So, now let's go check out one of the newest shows here at Hollywood Studios, The Little Mermaid: A Musical Adventure. >> >> Ariel, oh Flounder, have you ever seen anything so wonderful in your entire life? >> >> That was a very cool little show. I can see why it's a popular Lightning Lane. The singing is amazing.

You got the puppets. Everything blends beautifully with the animation. It's a very cool experience, especially if you're a big fan of The Little Mermaid. It's a must-do. As I mentioned, these shows are great opportunities to go ahead and book your next Lightning Lane cuz you really got nothing else to do while you're waiting for it to start.

I took the opportunity to book my next Lightning Lane, and it also gives me the opportunity to show you a little bit about booking in other parks because my plan today is actually to park hop over to Magic Kingdom. Once you unlock the ability to park hop, a few things change. The first thing you're going to notice is that when you're booking or modifying Lightning Lanes, all of a sudden, there's this row of park icons that appears on your screen. So, this is where you will tap if you want to book an attraction in another park. The thing that's a little bit annoying about this, though, is if you're in any park other than Magic Kingdom, every time you refresh your view, it is going to then default to Magic Kingdom.

I don't know why it does this, but it does this. It's still not been fixed. So, even though we're still in Hollywood Studios and we're modifying a Lightning lane that's in Hollywood Studios. When we refresh the view, it's going to hop to Magic Kingdom. Now, the way that I like to play the slots when I'm in this mode is instead of swiping my finger down the screen, I'll just tap back and forth between a couple of parks.

But, let me show you another little trick that can make this tap back and forth even more useful. If you're planning to hop to a different park, as we are, we're going to plan to hop to Magic Kingdom, you can use the Genie to go ahead and plan for that park as well, and it will retain your selections for your current park and the park you're going to. This is how you do it. You're going to go into the main menu, and then you're going to tap on my plans. Scroll down past your current plans, and you'll see a button there to plan for your next park.

Now, I went ahead and put in the rides that I'm most interested in grabbing in our next park, but for right now, I want to show you that once you make these selections, they are now pinned to the top of your view in Magic Kingdom. So, now when we tap on Hollywood Studios, we see our rides there pinned to the top, and when we tap on Magic Kingdom, the rides we're interested in there pinned to the top. So, essentially, each time we tap, we are successfully checking to see if one of the rides we're looking for has a good time right there at the top of the list. So, earlier I mentioned the attractions that are most difficult to book here in Hollywood Studios, but we haven't really covered those other parks. If you'd like to see the complete deck for each park, we keep those updated quarterly.

Just visit earscouts.com/deck, and you'll be able to see the full listings for the current season. Now, the reason it's important that these things get updated seasonally is because things do change a lot. Let's take a look at the current deck for Magic Kingdom. You're going to be shocked to see that right now, and I triple checked this cuz I couldn't believe it either, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh is the ace in that deck right now. Now, there's a couple of different reasons for this.

One, I think there's just not as many Lightning Lanes available for that attraction right now. It's certainly not the most popular attraction in the park, but it does seem to have a shortage of Lightning Lanes. The other thing that's happening is the season. Normally, Tiana's Bayou Adventure is the ace in this park, but guess what? It's cold in Orlando right now, so people don't want to run the risk of getting wet.

That means that Tiana's Bayou Adventure has slipped down the rankings a bit. Also, you've got Big Thunder Mountain closed for renovation, so that one's probably going to rise up higher in the list once it reopens, especially since it's going to have new features on that attraction. So, while this is the current rankings of the rides in Magic Kingdom right now, you will want to visit your scouts.com/deck before your visit, just so you can see what the latest card values are looking like. So, given this information, I decided that the next ride I wanted to book was one for our next park. So, even though I'm not planning to park hop until much later in the day, I want to ride those really popular attractions, like at the moment Winnie the Pooh, I do need to book those rides now, early in the day while they're still available.

So, I've decided to set aside one of my cards in my hand for Magic Kingdom, and I went ahead and grabbed The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh. Now, the other thing that I wanted to go ahead and book was that single pass Lightning Lane. We've been talking about multi-pass Lightning Lanes all day, but I do want to ride a single pass attraction, which is Rise of the Resistance in this park. The good news is I was successful. The bad news is I'm running a little bit late for our Lightning Lane over at Millennium Falcon Smugglers Run.

So, we're going to head over there. As soon as I ride that ride, I'm going to show you how I was able to grab Rise of the Resistance and how I was able to back that time up to fit better with my plans. But, for right now, let's hop aboard the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy and take a spin on the Millennium Falcon. >> >> I know there's a successful mission on the Millennium Falcon, but I'm starting to get a little bit nervous about the success of our next mission because the wind is definitely picking up and we've got Slinky Dog Dash next up in our list. Here's the thing about weather and outdoor rides like Slinky Dog.

If there is lightning within a certain radius of the park they will close down outdoor attractions that it's dangerous to ride with lightning like Slinky Dog Dash. Now, the good news is if you have a lightning lane for that attraction and it goes down during your return window your lightning lane will turn into what's called an experience redemption. And that means that you can use it on a list of rides including the ride that you got it for later in the day. That can oftentimes be really helpful cuz it gives you more flexibility with the time that you want to ride that ride. But, for us, it's not going to be helpful because we got a lot to do today including hop to another park and I definitely want to ride Slinky.

>> >> Slinky Dog was a success. We were able to ride it before the lightning and rain and thunder started. So, I am so happy we got to work that into our day. I also need to catch you up on the lightning lanes that I've been booking in the interim because as soon as I tapped in back at Millennium Falcon Smugglers Run, that opened up a slot for me to book something else. I did see that the weather was starting to turn.

So, I played the slots a little bit and I was able to grab Mickey and Minnie's runaway railway. And then once I rode Slinky Dog Dash, I was able to book another lightning lane because that freed up a slot as well. At that moment, I decided to go ahead and book another attraction over at Magic Kingdom. Right now, I've got Haunted Mansion, but I'm going to try to turn that into something else. Maybe Jungle Cruise or Peter Pan's Flight cuz I would like to get some of those higher value cards checked off my list if I'm able to.

Now, before we hop on Mickey and Minnie, I do have one other thing I wanted to share and that was of course how I was able to get Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance. That has been showing as unavailable since I started looking. So, I was really glad to see it come available earlier. But when I tapped in to grab it, by the time I specified my party, which was just me, and continued to the next screen, that time was already snatched up. So, unfortunately, that meant I had to try again.

But persistence paid off because eventually I was able to get through to the confirmation screen. And this is important. Even if you don't love the time that you see on this confirmation screen, stay here because if you look at the top, there's a timer. That's how much time you have this particular time slot locked in for. And if you look down, there's a little modify time button there.

So, you can use that modify time button to repeatedly check to see if better times are available. And that's exactly what I did. I was able to get a perfect time for Rise of the Resistance. And then, once I secured that new time, I completed the purchase and I had my lightning lane. Now, with single pass lightning lanes, when you modify them, it's a little bit different.

So, let's go ahead and tap on it that single pass lightning lane and tap on modify. You can see here that with single pass, you can change the person that the lightning lane is for. So, I could transfer it to someone else in my party if I wanted. I can also change the date. I could choose to ride Rise on a different day on my trip if it was available.

And finally, I could choose to change the time or even select a different single pass lightning lane attraction at one of the other parks. Now, keep in mind, you will lose money if you get a cheaper lightning lane than the one you have booked. So, it's probably better to stick with the one you have if it's one of the more expensive ones like Rise. Now, with all the single pass lightning lane stuff covered, I'm going to head indoors to ride Mickey and Minnie before it starts pouring down rain, and I'll meet you after the ride. >> >> Sometimes art imitates life.

I was inside Mickey and Minnie's in in the middle of a tornado, and then I came outside and literally the palm fronds were blowing off of the trees. Thankfully, we actually prepared for that. I had seen in the weather forecast the middle of the day today was looking a little bit rough. So, I decided had make a dining reservation during that period, and I chose to do a character dining meal. Now, the reason I did that is because you can no longer book lightning lanes for character meet and greet.

So, if characters are important to you, a character dining meal can be a good chance to have some really good interactions, especially if you got kids who love Minnie. This is a great place to meet Minnie, and we just got called in for our table, so we're going to head inside and eat. I actually always love having a meal in the middle of the day. If you're going to do table service dining, I think lunch is the best time. If you're here in the summer, this is usually the hottest part of the day, so you're grateful for the AC, and for us today, we are grateful to be out of the rain.

As soon as I tapped in back at Mickey and Minnie's, I did go ahead and book my next lightning lane. I just went ahead and grabbed Star Tours, cuz it was super easy to get. But, my plan, of course, is going to be to modify that into something better if I can. We timed that perfectly. Right as I was coming out, the sun started shining.

I was trying to change that lightning lane that we had booked into Toy Story Mania, and I wasn't having any luck. And then I realized, Toy Story Mania is down, and it's been down for much of the day. And that's an important thing to think about when you're trying to grab a tough to grab lightning lane. If that attraction is down, Disney is not likely to release more lightning lanes for it, because they don't know when it's going to come back up, especially if it's down for an extended period of time. If the attraction's running smoothly, Disney will sprinkle in some more lightning lanes throughout the day, so you have a much better chance of booking those rides that are running smoothly than you do the ones that are down.

So, I just gave up on trying to get Toy Story Mania. Since it's down, I didn't think I was going to be able to get it, and I switched gears and aimed for Tower of Terror. I was able to book that about an hour from now, so not too bad. I tried backing it up, but I really wasn't having any luck. I think the fact that we're here on a holiday weekend is making it even more difficult than usual to book those harder to grab rides.

And now that we're approaching 2:00, that's going to kind of be the rest of our day. Top tier rides are going to be really tough to get. It'll be pretty easy to get the four, fives, and sixes in our deck, but those aces, kings, and queens are going to get super hard to grab. I will show you some tricks in just a little bit that'll help you grab those tough to book rides, especially as it gets later in the day. But for right now, what I want to do is get in a standby queue.

Since I've got an hour before my next Lightning Lane, I've got some time to kill, and I always recommend do a blend of Lightning Lanes and standby queues. Just because you're using Lightning Lane doesn't mean you always need to use Lightning Lane. In fact, the time that you spend in the standby queue will be a great opportunity to modify the Lightning Lanes that you have and try to get better times for them. So, I'm going to head on over and jump on a Rock 'n' Roller Coaster. It's got a pretty long wait right now, but the timing is going to be perfect so that when I come off of that attraction, Tower of Terror is going to be right next door, and I'll be able to jump right into my next Lightning Lane.

>> >> Rock 'n' Roller Coaster, always a jam good time. And I'm really sad cuz that's probably the last time I'm going to get to use that really terrible dad joke in a video. I guess it'll probably still be called Rock 'n' Roller Coaster, but it's the Muppets. It's I don't know. I don't know if it's still going to be a jam good time.

It's probably going to be a different kind of good time. Either way, it was a lot of fun and definitely worth the wait. It was actually perfect though because I used that time in the line to refine all of my lightning lanes and even add in another one. I was able to grab our second single pass lightning lane for Seven Dwarfs Mine Train over at Magic Kingdom. So, we've got Tower of Terror right now.

Immediately following that, we do Rise of the Resistance. Then, we're going to hop over to Magic Kingdom and there we've got three attractions all grouped together right there in Fantasyland. We've got Winnie the Pooh, Peter Pan's Flight, and Seven Dwarfs Mine Train, all ready to go. So, I'm feeling pretty good about the time we spent in that line, but right now it's time to check in at my favorite hotel here at Walt Disney World, the Hollywood Tower Hotel, also known as the Tower of Terror. >> >> I am so glad we were able to work in Tower of Terror.

I'm a thrill junkie and that is one of my favorite thrill rides in all of Walt Disney World. But, speaking of things that are a little bit scary, right now when we look at the lightning lanes that are available, especially when we look at those most popular ones that we're aiming for, things are definitely starting to look scary on the lightning lane front as well. And that's why right now in this section of the video, we're going to move on to some more advanced lightning lane tips. So, everything that we've covered up until now it's kind of been basics of using the service, but from here forward, I want to talk about some things that give you a little bit of an edge when you're trying to book those more difficult to book rides and these are things that maybe aren't quite as obvious. For this first tip, I'm going to show you what I did as soon as I tapped in here at Tower of Terror because that, of course, opened up a slot for us to be able to book our next Lightning Lane.

And I went over to Magic Kingdom. I edited my selections to put the rides that I was most interested in having pinned to the top there. But when I looked, none of them were immediately available. Now, I could just go ahead and play the slots like we've done for other rides in this view. I could keep refreshing and hope that I would find a time pop up for one of those attractions.

Here's the reason I don't recommend doing that, especially at this point in the day. If one does pop up, you're going to tap in and it's going to ask you who all is in your party. And this step, when you're selecting your party, it takes up precious milliseconds. And I'm telling you, at this point in the day, milliseconds matter. And you will find, more often than not, that you've probably lost that Lightning Lane by the time you've done this step.

But there is a workaround. What you want to do instead, book something else. Book anything else that's available with the party that you want to ride the more difficult to book ride. Then, you're going to modify that Lightning Lane that you've booked because, guess what? If you find a time that you like and you tap through, it's going to skip that step of selecting your party.

It's going to go ahead and use the party that's already attached to the existing Lightning Lane. And I'm telling you, those milliseconds are going to be the difference between getting that tough to book ride and having it tell you it's no longer available. So, we used that trick and we were able to snag the king in the deck at our next park. We now have Jungle Cruise lined up and ready to go. I'm also pleased to report that Rise of the Resistance is back online.

I was a little bit worried before cuz it's been down pretty much all day, but it looks like it's running right now. So, we're going to be able to head over there and use that single pass Lightning Lane. And then, we're off to Magic Kingdom. Let's go do it. >> >> Your escape pods came in a little off target.

>> >> We have arrived at the Magic Kingdom, and I feel like we've come full circle now. We started this video here at the Magic Kingdom, and now we're going to finish it. And I'm really excited about all the things we're going to be able to get done tonight. I feel really good that we're going to be able to book a lot of lightning lanes and do a lot more before this night is finished. But before we can do any of that, we got to head into Fantasyland and tap into our first ride because, as I'm sure you were aware, when we tapped in back at Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance, that didn't open up any slot for us to book something else.

It's a single pass lightning lane, which means it's completely separate from a multi-pass. Tapping in there does us no good. It doesn't allow us to book anything new. But Peter Pan's Flight and The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh are both multi-pass attractions. So, as soon as we tap in there, we're going to open up a slot and be able to book something else.

So, let's go do it. >> Peter Pan's Flight, one of the most challenging lightning lanes to book, is now in the bag. And we're about to go tap in at what is, strangely enough, the most challenging lightning lane to book in this park. Right now, Winnie the Pooh, the family I was talking to in line behind me was struggling all day to get Winnie the Pooh. So, the struggle is real.

We're going to go tap in right now. It's a little bit early, but that's okay because we're going to use the 5-minute grace period that we have at the beginning of our lightning lane. And voila, even though we were a few minutes early, it glowed green, which meant we were free to go ahead. If you had been more than 5 minutes early, it would have glowed blue, which would have told the cast member that you needed to hold off and come back a little bit later. My favorite thing about grace periods, though, is not so much the one at the beginning, although that's nice, it's really the one at the end that matters because as soon as your lightning lane expires, it frees you up to book another lightning lane in that slot, but it still sticks around because of that grace period.

Officially, according to Disney, you have 15 minutes to use that lightning lane after it expires. Having said that, we have found that as long as you are within an hour and 59 minutes of the expiration of your lightning lane, it still glows green. So, you could be holding on to that lightning lane that's expired for right under 2 hours and it would still work. Now, of course, this is unofficial. This is not officially the the but it has been working that way ever since the system changed over from Genie plus to lightning lane multi-pass.

And best of all, once it expires, you can even use that slot to book something else. I'm glad to see that Winnie the Pooh is getting the love he deserves and getting his moment in the spotlight as the ace of our deck cuz that really is a delightful dark ride. But now we're going to move on to what is probably the most popular lightning lane in Fantasyland and that's the single pass lightning lane for Seven Dwarfs Mine Train. But before we do, I want to share with you one last really important tip. If you're here on a busy day and you're trying to back things up, especially at the end of the night.

Now when I say the term back things up, what I mean is booking a ride and then moving the return time earlier so that you can tap in sooner and then of course book something else. As the night goes on, it's going to get harder to do, but these two strategies are going to help you a lot to get those last-minute lightning lanes. The first one is when a lightning lane is out of times and you just got really lucky and you were able to tap in on a time that showed up. If you want to get an earlier time for that lightning lane, I wouldn't recommend backing out of that screen because right now you've got that particular time secured. There's a little timer there at the top.

As long as that timer is counting down, you still have this lightning lane that you're holding on to in your hand. You're not losing it, but if you back out, you're going to lose the time that you have. So if you want to get an earlier time at this point, I would recommend using the modify time feature. There's a little button there. You just tap on it and probably there's not going to be other times available, but you just keep tapping, and if one comes available, it will show up there, and you'll have to, again, tap in very quickly to grab it, but that's how I would do it in that scenario.

If, however, you're just trying to back up a time for a Lightning Lane that still has time showing up, there's a much easier way to do it. For this one, what you're going to do, go ahead and tap on the time that's there. Sometimes when you tap in, you'll see a little note letting you know time is changed. Oftentimes, this means that it's going to show a later time than what you tapped in on, but not always. Sometimes it shows an earlier time than what you tapped in on, cuz what it does, when you tap through, it looks for the best available time, and that's what it shows you.

If you don't like the time that you're seeing here, just tap back out, and then don't do anything, don't refresh, just tap in again, and it's going to go and look again to see what is the best available time. Sometimes, that time is going to change, and it's going to be better than the one you tapped in on, and it might very well be the time you're looking for. Best of all, if you like the time you're seeing there, you don't have to do anything else. You don't have to worry about tapping in quickly, you've already done the tap. You are on the confirmation screen, and that time is yours to keep.

So, now that I've shared that tip for getting these last-minute Lightning Lanes, I'm going to see how many more of those I can grab, because Magic Kingdom's actually closing really early tonight. It closes at 9:00, which is unusual, especially for a holiday weekend like this weekend. The other thing that's important to know is that the last 30 minutes of park time, you cannot book Lightning Lanes. The Lightning Lane system essentially goes to sleep for those last 30 minutes. Now, if you have a Lightning Lane that you booked, you can still use it until the park closes, but you won't be able to book new ones in those last 30 minutes.

So, right now, it's just after 7:00. That means we have an hour and a half left to see how many more lightning lanes we can book. I'm feeling good. I think we can get a bunch in, but there's only one way to find out. Let's go do it.

>> >> What an amazing day we just had here at Walt Disney World and the perfect ending. I would love to say that I completely planned it so that we would end with fireworks on our last ride and then still have time to make it over to Main Street for the grand finale, but it just kind of worked out that way. But, we had an incredible day today. It really does go to show that once you learn how to master this system, once you know how to use these different lightning lane services, they really can turbocharge your day and help you get a lot done. Now, if you'd like to know more about how to use lightning lane specifically in each park and get a more detailed strategy for each park, we have those videos from the previous year and we're going to be remaking them all again this year.

So, be sure to subscribe to the channel. Also, check out our podcast cuz we're going to be doing some strategy episodes there as well. This year on the main channel for Earscouts, we're going to be refocusing on these strategy videos. You can still find fun videos like our coverage of the different Epcot festivals over in our Patreon community, but our goal for 2026 is to put out some really high-quality strategy guides from lightning lane to early entry to how to tackle the parks without lightning lane. We got a lot of big plans for the year.

So, if you want to see those videos, be sure to subscribe. Before we go, I do want to give a huge thank you to our Patreon family. Thank you so much for making videos like this possible. If you'd like to join them and get access to exclusive bonus content, including those fun videos I was talking about earlier, head on over to patreon.com/earscouts. And of course, I want to thank all of you.

Thank you so much for watching this video. I hope it helped you to feel more confident using lightning lane the next time you're here at Walt Disney World. If you did find it helpful, help us out by giving this video a like, subscribing to our channel, and then ringing that bell. That way you'll be notified whenever new videos like this come out. Until next time, don't forget to think happy thoughts, everybody.

We'll see you again real soon.
