# Epcot RIDES & ATTRACTIONS - 2026 - Walt Disney World

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h6jK2pgFrug
Channel: Theme Park 101
Duration: 13:33
Published: 2025-12-16
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:28:01.943774+00:00

## Chapters

- 0:00 EPCOT
- 0:44 World Celebration
- 2:59 World Discovery
- 4:31 World Nature
- 7:10 World Showcase
- 11:53 Nighttime Shows
- 12:15 FESTIVALS 2026

## Transcript

Welcome to Epcot, where innovation meets global culture in spectacular style. Opening in 1982 as Walt Disney World's second park and spanning more than twice the size of the Magic Kingdom, Epcot is a world of endless discovery. From cuttingedge thrills and futuristic pavilions to immersive festivals, global flavors, and traditions from around the globe, this is where imagination, technology, and celebration collide. Hello there, I'm Mike and welcome to Theme Park 101. That's right.

Today we'll be taking a look at all the rides, shows, and attractions in the fantastic Epcot at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida. Don't forget to stick around until the end of the video as we take a little look at the amazing festivals that will be held throughout 2026. You enter the park into World Celebration, the heart of Epcot that celebrates the art of storytelling and what unites us as people. The first attraction you will come to is the remarkable Spaceship Earth. The incredible dark ride that takes you on a journey through the history of communication with a focus on the development of cultures and the future of technologies and guides you along many different historic scenes filled with amazing detail and plenty of audio animatronics making it a perfect ride for all the family to enjoy.

As you exit, there are a number of interactive experiences known as Project Tomorrow that showcases some high-tech science and transport innovations. Behind Spaceship Earth, you'll discover the central hub area of Epcot that includes a number of shopping and dining locations as well as Club Cool, where you can sample different Coca-Cola products from around the world. The World Celebration Gardens features lots of lush green areas, making a perfect place to relax and hang out, especially during festivals. You can also head to the Dreamers Point to check out the inspiring Walt Disney statue. and you may even catch a performance by the jamters, a cleanup crew that can make a beat out of anything.

Finally, in this area is the Communicore Hall and Plaza that is used as the main hub and performance area during the various festivals throughout the year. So, you may catch a performance of Celebration and KTO performing all the hits from the popular Disney animation or meet a host of characters like Mickey and Pals at the special dedicated meet and greet areas. To learn more about the amazing festivals that are hosted within the communic hall throughout the year, then stick around until the end of the video. Also in World Celebration is the magical journey into imagination with Figment. Another classic dark ride that takes you on an adventure as you learn about the five senses with the mischievous Figment.

It features lots of different colorful scenes as well as a fan favorite song, One Little Spark, making it great fun for all the family. You'll exit through Image Works that includes a number of interactive and creative exhibits as well as a chance to meet Figment at different times throughout the day. Next to this attraction is the Disney and Pixar Short Film Festival, a fun 4D show that includes a rotation of three popular animated shorts, making it a nice place to relax and cool off before heading on to some other exciting attractions in the park. We now head on to the next area, World Discovery, that has a futuristic design with attractions based on science, technology, and exploration. First up is the amazing Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind, an awesome indoor roller coaster that is the first Marvel attraction at Walt Disney World and the first ever coaster in Epcot.

Join the Guardians of the Galaxy in this space adventure that includes multiple launches and lots of surprises, including a rotating selection of six popping musical tracks, giving you the chance to reride this coaster over and over again. Next up is Mission Space, the centrifugebased spinning ride that simulates the training required to be a member of the space program. Before the mission, each rider is given a specific role to perform throughout the story. And then on the ride, you'll be exposed to up to 2.5gs, making it a great attraction for fans of space and thrills. Those that want to try the ride without the spinning motions can head on the special green mission, which only includes small movements, giving the chance for everyone to enjoy.

Through the exit of Mission Space, younger guests can enjoy the advanced training lab, a mixture of a fun interactive playground, along with some cool digital games that are all based around the mission to Mars. The final attraction in World Discovery is Test Track, a high-speed giant slot car ride that was recently re-imagined into its third iteration that features an allnew storyline that celebrates innovation while highlighting the past, present, and future. It still remains the fastest Disney attraction at 64.9 mph and is a great all round thrilling experience. We now head back through World Celebration to the next area, World Nature, which is based on the beautiful things we can find in the natural world and how to protect them. We begin with Journey of Water inspired by Moana, the relaxing walkthrough attraction filled with luscious gardens featuring interactive fountains, cool water features, and just a generally nice natural atmosphere.

It's a great place to cool down in the hot Florida sun and learn something new about water preservation. You'll also be able to meet Moana in the nearby meet and greet area at various times throughout the day. Next up is The Seas with Nemo and Friends, which begins as an ona dark ride featuring characters from the Finding Nemo franchise, all set within a real aquarium. It uses an innovative glass effect to project the animated characters, which makes it perfect for the younger guests and fans of the colorful sea creatures. You'll then exit straight into the sea base, a fully working aquarium where you'll be able to find sharks, stingrays, manatees, dolphins, and a whole plethora of different aquatic life.

The final attraction based in this pavilion is Turtle Talk with Crush, an interactive show starring the funloving sea turtle, who is also from the classic Pixar animation Finding Nemo. This popular show is great for the younger guests as it consists of an improvisational real-time conversation with the audience as it uses special digital puppetry that allows the animated characters to interact with guests which makes it a totally unique experience every time. The final section in World Nature is the Land Pavilion that houses three great attractions as well as a few dining locations. We begin with Living with the Land, the nice relaxing boat ride that takes you through a few educational show scenes before careening through a real working greenhouse. It showcases a variety of different modern farming methods with lots of growing fruit and vegetables on display that will go on to be used in a variety of the restaurants around the Walt Disney World Resort.

The main attraction in the Lamb Pavilion is Saurin, the awesome hang glider simulator that flies over various locations around the globe. The flying theater ride is currently performing as Saurin around the world that showcases awesome historic landmarks including the Sydney Opera House, the Great Wall of China, and the Pyramids of Egypt. To celebrate America's 250th anniversary, Epcot has announced that a new version of the ride called Soaring Over America, will debut in the park on Memorial Day at the end of May 2026, and will feature new scenes showcasing the wonders across the country. The final attraction in the land is Awesome Planet, an eye-opening 4D film about the Earth's biomes and the perils of climate change, making it a great place to learn about how we can help our awesome planet together. We now move on to the final area of Epcot, but also by far the largest.

The Incredible World Showcase is made up of 11 different countries, which all feature a selection of restaurants and different shops showcasing the country's culture and uniqueness. Some of them also feature attractions starting with Mexico and their fun offering Grand Fiesta Tour starring the three cabiieros where you join Panchito, Jose, and Donald Duck on this fun dark boat ride with an amazing setting within the Mexican pavilion. It displays various aspects of Mexican culture as you follow the gang to their colorful musical performance in front of the nearby restaurant. This ride can easily be missed, so make sure you head to the back of the Mexico pavilion to experience this great attraction. Heading clockwise around World Showcase, you'll next come to the Norway Pavilion, which houses another dark boat ride, Frozen Ever After, as you join Elsa, Anna, and all your other favorite characters through various exciting scenes from the first movie.

It features some amazing audio animatronics and popular songs for you to sing along to. And due to its popularity, this attraction can get very long wait times, so make sure you either head here early or plan accordingly. Frozen Ever After will be closing at the start of the year as they'll be updating all the audio animatronics, but you won't have to wait too long as it reopens in February 2026. Also, don't forget to visit the nearby Royal Summer House where you can meet the princesses Anna and Elsa throughout the day. The next country is China, which is home to lots of delicious dining locations and massive shop, as well as the show Reflections of China.

This is set in a circle vision theater allowing the beauty of the film to flourish wherever you stand as it shows the rapid development of the amazing country. Throughout the day, you can also meet Mulan in her special meet and greet area set inside the China pavilion. We next head to Germany which has some great indoor and outdoor dining locations as well as some live music being played throughout the day. And you can also meet the popular Disney princess Snow White. Next is Italy that also has some of the best dining locations in Epcot as well as a small entertainment offering with Sergio, the resident master juggler and mime.

We now arrive at the host pavilion beginning with their attraction, the American adventure, an informative stage show that takes guests on a trip through American history with a use of 35 audio animatronics including Benjamin Franklin, Mark Twain, and many other amazing American legends. You can also catch the wonderful Voices of Liberty who sing various classic songs in an amazing ac capella style set inside the pavilion. You can also check out some amazing performances at the America Gardens Theater that host various events throughout the year. And with America's 250th anniversary, you can expect some extra special performances throughout 2026. The next country is Japan that is home to the show Matsuriza where you can experience the thundering sounds of Tao, an ancient style of Japanese drumming.

You'll also be able to find a fun toy museum, a huge shopping location, and some more amazing dining options. Next up is the Morocco Pavilion that also offers some great shopping and dining choices, as well as a chance to meet Princess Jasmine from the popular Disney animation Aladdin. We now come to the France pavilion which is home to three great attractions where we first head to the Palado Cinema that is home to impressions to France a beautiful panoramic movie that takes you on a journey to lots of famous French cities and historical sites and set in the same theater. Beauty and the Beast sing along plays alternately with the previous show. Get ready to sing along with Belle and the other characters with all the popular songs from the beloved animated classic that also features an original story line from a new perspective.

You'll also have a chance to meet Belle as well as Princess Aurora in their unique meet and greet locations set at the front of the France Pavilion. The final attraction in this area is Remy's Ratatouille Adventure. The exciting trackless dark ride that shrinks you down to experience life in the kitchen as a rat alongside Remy and friends. You'll head through various amazing scenes as you help Remy with his delicious creations. In between France and the next country is the international gateway, another entrance and exit into the park that takes you to some nearby resort hotels and the Disney Skyliner Station.

We now enter my home country, the United Kingdom, a beautiful pavilion that features some live performances inside the Rosen Crown Pub and Outdoor Gazebo, as well as a chance to meet Alice and Winnie the Pooh at their special meet and greet areas. We have now reached the final pavilion, Canada, and the last attraction in the World Showcase, Canada far and wide. Another short film set inside a Circle Vision 360° theater that features lots of beautiful scenery from all over Canada with narration by Canadian icons Katherine O'Hara and Eugene Levy. The final attraction in this guide comes in the form of the amazing nighttime spectacular Luminous The Symphony of Us. An exciting show that has a great mixture of dazzling fireworks, fountains, music, and lights set to an original composition located over the beautiful World Showcase Lagoon, which has plenty of viewing areas, making it the perfect way to end your day at this amazing park.

Throughout the year, Epcot hosts some amazing colorful festivals that all features delicious food and drink options, as well as some unique entertainment. From January 16th until February 23rd, you can enjoy the Festival of the Arts that features a selection of amazing artists showcasing their Disney themed artwork. From March 4th until June 1st, the Flower and Garden Festival takes over and includes Disney themed topiaries, live music, garden tours, and much more. From the end of August until mid November is the popular food and wine festival that hosts over 28 new dining booths featuring cuisine from all over the world. Finally, at the end of November until the end of the year is the Festival of the Holidays that includes seasonal offerings, a candle-like processional, and unique holiday storytellers.

So, that completes this guide for all the rides, shows, and attractions for the amazing Epcot. I hope you enjoyed the video, and if you would like to help support, then consider subscribing for free, and take a look at my channel for attraction guides for lots of different theme parks around the world. If you want to know more about the attractions at another park in Walt Disney World, then check out these guide videos here. Thanks for watching and I'll see you next time on Theme Park 101.
