# EPCOT Rides & Attractions in 2026

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQ1YT3tCvOY
Channel: DFBGuide
Duration: 21:32
Published: 2026-06-05
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:27:33.112861+00:00

## Transcript

From sea to space to around the world, we are exploring all of Epcot's rides and attractions today here on DFB Guide. Hey everybody, it's AJ from Disney Food Blog. Any DFB video that keeps us inside the Epcot bubble is always going to be a great video in my book. But what's even more exciting about this one is that we're going to take you on a journey around the entire park to fully explore all of Epcot's different rides and attractions so that you know what to expect and what you'll want to prioritize before you go. Before we get started, I know you're more than likely going to want to jot down the attractions that spike your attention the most once we start shouting them out.

So, if you want to keep all your must-dos in a nice orderly well-kept itinerary right from the get-go, go ahead and scan the QR code you see on the screen now or click on the link in the description for disneyfoodblog.com/disneyplans after this. And we're going to send you our free Disney World planning worksheets right now to become your little schedule companion as you continue watching today's video. When you walk through Epcot's front gates, you'll automatically step into the World Celebration area. This is known best for being the keeper of the park's icon, Spaceship Earth, as well as the keeper of lots of other noteworthy attractions. Let's dive into rides first.

Spaceship Earth isn't just a pretty face, it also houses one of the most impressive dark rides in Disney World. And definitely one of my personal favorites. During your trip on Spaceship Earth, you'll learn about the evolution of communication starting from the dawn of time and leading up to when computers and the virtual world started to take root in our lives. You'll even be able to create your own future during the ride's conclusion after answering a series of questions on the screen in front of you. Spaceship Earth features over 60 animatronics as well as a melodious narration from the iconic Dame Judi Dench.

Wait time here is 0 to 10 minutes. Now, that's an average wait time. What you're going to find is when Epcot first opens, a lot of folks are going to go straight to the Spaceship Earth line there first thing in the morning because that's the first ride they come across, right? And so you're going to see that wait time kind of spike. So, what you want to do is skip Spaceship Earth at first and come back later in the day when it calms down a little bit.

Lightning Lane? Yep, multi-pass tier two. Now, a hop, skip, and a jump over to the Imagination Pavilion means another World Celebration dark ride, but instead of exploring communication through the years, you'll be exploring the five senses alongside Dr. Nigel Channing and his pesky little purple dragon sidekick Figment, who is going to completely derail all of Dr. Channing's big plan.

Sorry, spoiler alert. But, Dr. Nigel Channing Moonface McGee still gives me nightmares, so we're kind of okay with that. Average wait time for this one, 0 to 10 minutes. Lightning Lane?

Yes, multi-pass tier two. For someone who's not supposed to be talked about ever, we sure do talk a lot about Bruno, don't we? And the same is true when you go watch Celebración en Encanto over at Communicore Plaza. This is a sing-along featuring popular music from the hit Disney film Encanto, and later on in the show, you just might see Bruno and Mirabel come out to join the group for a little song and dance, too. If you'd ever seen the Blue Man Group before, then Epcot's Jammitors are a lot like that, just less blue.

While they're taking their breaks from keeping the park clean, the Jammitors use whatever they've got on hand at the time, like trash cans, lids, brooms, and various cleaning tools to lay down high-energy percussive beats. Over near the Imagination Pavilion again, the Disney and Pixar Short Film Festival is a 4D theater that shows three back-to-back Disney and Pixar short films. This is a good option if you're just looking for 18 uninterrupted minutes of getting in the AC, keeping your kids entertained, and staying off your feet for a bit. Lightning Lane, yes, multi-pass tier two. After the sun sets and you're starting to head up to the front of the park again, you can watch the points of light over at Spaceship Earth, which transforms the park's icon with lots of colorful lighting effects.

Every 15 minutes or so until the end of the park day, you'll be able to watch a light show happen on Spaceship Earth, but if you stick around, there usually be at least two different shows that happen per night, one being the classic and the other being festival specific if there's a festival going on. Moving on to characters, if you want to meet Mickey Mouse and his bestest buds in their classic cartoon attire, Mickey and friends over at Communicore Hall is the best place to make that happen. While Mickey will always be here, his friends tend to rotate out, so you never know who might be accompanying him on the day of your visit. Average wait for the characters, 20 to 30 minutes. But hey, Communicore isn't your only opportunity to meet the Fab Five.

Disney pals often make appearances near the main entrance throughout the day under the awning that's toward the right-hand side of Spaceship Earth when you're entering the park. Plus, if you're a Disney Visa card holder, you'll also have an exclusive opportunity to meet these classic friends at a designated Disney Visa card holder meet and greet spot near the Pixar Short Film Festival Theater. Note though that this exclusive meet and greet spot does have more limited hours than the traditional meet and greet spot, so make sure to study up on those on the day of your visit and head that direction with your Disney Visa in hand if you're interested. You don't have to pay anything extra, but you do have to show them that you're a Disney Visa card holder to get in. After a ride on Journey into Imagination with Figment, you might become Figgy's number one fan, and if that's the case, Figment does have a meet and greet location inside ImageWorks, which you can find at the exit of the ride.

Moving on to World Discovery next, space, the final frontier. Where are my fellow Trekkies at? Live long and prosper, y'all. World Discovery's attractions take you out of this world to hang out amongst the cosmos, which is why it makes sense that the park's more intense attractions reside here. Okay, rides first.

There's a reason why our Cosmic Rewind inspired t-shirts on the dfbstore.com website sell out the fastest, and that's because people love Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind, like a lot. After winding your way through the wonders of Xandar pavilion, aka the ride's queue line, you'll become part of the Guardians' next big mission to retrieve the cosmic generator from the thieving hands of a really, really, really big celestial baddie named Eson. This indoor coaster has a lot of different elements to it. Not only can each car rotate to show you different angles of what's going on around you, but this is also a backwards launching coaster and a coaster with a randomized 80s soundtrack, so you never know what song you'll be blasting off to until you're on board. You must be at least 42 inches tall to ride Cosmic Rewind, and brace yourselves, this coaster tends to attract the longest wait times park-wide, making it a good one to prioritize during early park entry or to purchase an individual lightning lane for.

Average wait for this one, 60 to 70 minutes. Lightning lane, yes. Single pass only. And the DFB team and I have deemed a certain section inside World Discovery as, well, I'll be honest, I call it barf alley, cuz you can literally go from spinning around the track at Cosmic Rewind to jumping right on Mission Space next door immediately after, which is the most spinny ride you might ever go on. Mission Space has two different missions you can choose between.

The green mission is the tamer option for guests at least 40 inches tall. This is going to take you on a simulated flight inside a training style enclosed capsule for a trip around Earth. But the orange mission for guests at least 44 inches tall puts you in the same enclosed capsule, but instead of a quick, easy-going flight around Earth, you'll be taking an intense mission to Mars, where everything seems to go wrong. And oh yeah, you'll be spinning so fast that it feels like you're actually taking off in a rocket ship. See those barf bags in front of you?

Disney's not playing. If you get motion sickness at all, even in the slightest, I'd think really hard before getting in line for the orange mission. Just saying. Average wait, 5 to 15 minutes for green and 15 to 25 for orange. Lightning Lane, yep, multi-pass, tier two.

And then, if those back-to-back barf alley rides didn't give you enough adrenaline-spiking thrills, you can check out Test Track for a little journey through the evolution of cars and mobility leading up to a grand finale that'll send you zooming around an outdoor track at speeds of up to 65 mph. You must be 40 inches tall to ride this one, and hot tip for you, if the ride line's looking too long for your liking, you may want to try the single rider queue instead to help potentially cut down on your wait without a Lightning Lane purchase. This is only a strategy you want to try if you're cool with breaking up your group for a bit because single rider lines basically use people to fill in gaps in ride vehicles, so you may not be riding with your whole group. Average wait, 50 to 60 minutes on Test Track. Lightning Lane, yep, multi-pass, tier one.

Okay, not a whole lot of meeting and greeting happening around these parts. However, sometimes Star-Lord comes out to meet and dance with guests outside of the Cosmic Rewind ride. Okay, World Discovery got our heart pumping, so let's take things nice and easy and leisurely now with a trip around World Nature. World Nature's rides really speak to my soul, especially Living with the Land inside the Land Pavilion. It is one of my probably top three favorite rides in Disney World.

Living with the Land is a slow-going 15-minute boat ride that takes you through the history of farming and leads you into Epcot's very own greenhouses. So, basically, a ride on this and Spaceship Earth is a definition of my perfect Epcot day. It's like so zen. Average wait for this one, 5 to 15 minutes. Lightning Lane, yes, multi-pass, tier two.

Meanwhile, over in the Seas Pavilion, you can check out The Seas with Nemo and Friends, which is another slow-going ride, but this one's an Omnimover that'll have you teaming up with Dory and Marlin to find Nemo again. Gosh, do you think Marlin ever considers air tagging this child? Anyway, this ride's interesting because every now and then the wait time spikes up surprisingly high for it. So, if you see it peaking past the average wait time, give it a bit before you go and hop in line cuz it should drop back down later in the day. Average wait, 5 to 15 minutes.

Lightning Lane, yep, Multi-pass tier two. And outside of The Seas Pavilion, you can find Journey of Water inspired by Moana. This isn't a ride, but rather it's a self-guided walk-through where you'll get to interact with living water while also learning about the Earth's natural water cycles. Now, I don't know if you've caught on to this yet or not, but Epcot's really big on edutainment, which means many of their attractions provide entertainment along with education. Okay, Soarin' to Tower, get ready for takeoff.

Soarin' is a flight simulator ride for guests at least 40 inches tall that takes you over iconic locations with a gorgeous swelling musical score accompanying your journey. Usually, the version of Soarin' you'll be able to experience here is Soarin' Around the World, which takes you, as the title suggests, around the world before bringing you back to Epcot again. But in honor of America's 250th birthday, Soarin' is switching over to its newest overlay, Soarin' Across America, which will take you over well-known landscapes and tourist destinations found in the USA. This will be a limited-time show, but for the release of this video, we don't know when it'll wrap up just yet. All we know is that it should be around for summer vacationers to see, but we'll keep you updated once we know more about its official end dates.

Average wait for Soarin', 30 to 40 minutes, but until everybody gets to ride the new version, that might spike up a little bit. Lightning Lane, absolutely, Multi-pass tier two. And let's head back to The Seas Pavilion again to start our shows portion of this particular part of Epcot. The Seas Pavilion is just a cool place to chill in general, especially if you love aquariums. But, if you're looking for a chance to chit-chat with the hippest, most far-out sea turtle in all of the EAC, be sure to check out Turtle Talk with Crush and come prepared with questions.

Crush loves to have Q&As with the audience, particularly with the younger folks in the crowd. Average wait, 15 to 25 minutes. Lightning Lane, you bet. Multi Pass Tier 2. Now, I wouldn't necessarily go out of my way to watch Awesome Planet inside the Land Pavilion, but if you're looking for a relaxing, quiet spot to get off your feet, get in the AC, and learn about how to keep the Earth safe over the next 10 minutes, it's not a bad way to pass the time.

All right, characters. Again, not a whole lot of meet and greets going on in these parts, unless you count the Garden Grill character dining experience in the Land Pavilion, which I adore. But, right outside the Journey of Water walk-through, you can meet Moana and ask her about how things are going with Pua and Heihei and the rest of the Motunui Island residents, if you want to. The biggest section of Epcot that literally takes up over half of the entire park is the World Showcase. This is a place that gives you the chance to explore 11 different countries in just one Epcot afternoon.

Rides up first. Nope, no height requirement rides in this section of the park, and yet this is still where some of the most popular rides of Epcot are. Frozen Ever After over in the Norway Pavilion is a slow-moving boat ride that takes you on a journey through Arendelle after the events of the first Frozen film take place. And everyone's all cheery and merry and happily ever after focused. At the beginning of this year, Frozen Ever After received new animatronics of the Frozen cast, so now this ride's looking better than ever, which means it's also more popular than ever, too, making it a solid choice to rope drop.

Warning though, while this ride is for all ages, there is a slight moment where the track does send your boat backwards, leading to a slight drop during the finale. Nothing major, but still something you'll want to warn your little ones about before you board so they're not caught off guard. Average wait is 55 to 65 minutes. Lightning Lane, yes. Multi Pass Tier One.

The second most popular ride in the World Showcase is Remy's Ratatouille Adventure over in the France Pavilion. This is a trackless dark ride that shrinks you down to the size of a rat and has you scampering away from the clutches of that dastardly Chef Skinner. Last year, Remy's removed the 3D element of the ride and instead improved the screen tech to give a sharper, clearer ride through that some forums online are deeming as ratatouillie. Remy's also has a single rider line if you want to attempt cutting down your wait when the queue starts getting too peoply. Average wait, 40 to 50 minutes.

Lightning Lane, yep. Multi Pass Tier One. If you're looking for a World Showcase ride with a much more manageable wait all day long, hit up the Mexico Pavilion for a ride on the Gran Fiesta Tour starring the Three Caballeros. I love this one. It's a gentle boat ride where you'll be joining Panchito and Jose Carioca to go track down Donald who's gone missing in Mexico.

Come to think of it, he probably needs an Apple AirTag, too. One of my favorite parts about this ride is the very beginning where your boat floats down a river that winds around a scaling Mayan pyramid, as well as the romantically dimly lit San Angel Inn restaurant. Average wait, 0 to 10 minutes. Lightning Lane, nope. And while you're making your way around all the different pavilions, be sure to check out the cultural galleries while you're at it.

These aren't rides, but they are underrated gems throughout the World Showcase that'll give you a peek into the different cultures, traditions, and history that make up each respective country. Cultural galleries include a Mexico Folk Art Gallery inside the Mexico Pavilion, the Stave Church in the Norway Pavilion, the House of the Whispering Willows inside the China Pavilion, super chill in there, the American Heritage Gallery inside the American Adventure Pavilion, the Bijutsu-kan Gallery in the Japan Pavilion, very cool kawaii exhibit there, the Gallery of Arts and History inside the Morocco Pavilion, and Palais du Cinema inside the France Pavilion. Looking for back-to-back shows and street misphere, then the World Showcase has got you covered. Note though, check the My Disney Experience app for any and all updated showtimes during your visit. Outside the Mexico Pavilion, mariachi and marimba bands like the popular Mariachi Cobre as well as others enjoy serenading guests as they pass by.

Inside the China Pavilion, Signature Temple, you're going to find Reflections of China, which is a 12-minute Circle Vision 360° show that guides you around the highlights of the country. The Germany Pavilion isn't exactly known for one key show unless you count the Oktoberfest performances that happen in the Biergarten Buffet. However, you'll often find live musical acts here with rotating artists that go along with whatever Epcot festival is currently happening at the time. Italy is a pretty chill pavilion with no major rides or noteworthy shows to prioritize, and yet if you time your Italy visit just right, you might be able to watch master juggler Sergio dazzle onlookers with his impressive and very funny street misphere act. The American Adventure Pavilion is really where you're going to want to go see the best of the best Epcot show entertainment because this is where you'll find the America Gardens Theater, which hosts rotating festival performances, some of which garner really big crowds.

So, check and see who might be coming to perform during your next visit. The American Adventure is another big show for the pavilion. This is a 30-minute performance with an entire cast of animatronics who retell some of America's most defining historical moments. And before the American Adventure opens its theater doors, you can head inside the building and listen to the a cappella group Voices of Liberty perform goose bump worthy harmonies that echo throughout the rotunda. In In you might just want to step inside the building solely to hear the 15-minute Voices of Liberty performance if you're not wanting to commit to the full 30-minute animatronic show.

You're totally allowed to do that. In Japan, it won't take too long for you to figure out what the main show is here. Just follow the sounds of the drums and watch the Matsuriza Taiko drummers do their thing on the balcony of the five-story pagoda. In Morocco, you can find an outdoor stage just outside the pavilion itself that often features live music and belly dancing by a group called Atlas Fusion. The France pavilion's Palais du Cinema is an interesting one because you can actually watch two different shows here daily.

The first is Impressions de France, which is basically a love letter to France's architecture and culture shown on a 200° wide screen. While the second is the Beauty and the Beast Sing-Along, which is exactly what it sounds like. Only the point of view is told through Gaston's sidekick Lefou's lens. And that was certainly a choice. Impressions de France can be seen in the first 30 minutes of the day as well as the last 2 hours of the day.

And Beauty and the Beast Sing-Along can be seen literally any other time besides those two time frames. Oh, and as long as you're here, keep an eye out for Acrobatico, the chair stacking balancing comedy act that happens occasionally right outside the Chefs de France restaurant. Meanwhile, behind the UK pavilion, see if you can catch a British rock performance out on the gazebo featuring 60s to 90s hit tunes. The live music continues over on the Canada Mill Stage outside the Canada pavilion with rotating artists featured with each new fest. Or, if you're looking for something that truly captures the most scenic views of the country, check out the Circle Vision Canada Far and Wide show in the back of the Canada pavilion.

Just walk down the stairs and past the waterfall. You can't miss it. And as the big old red juicy cherry on top of an otherwise show filled area, World Showcase is also where you're going to go to watch the end of night fireworks performance, Luminous the Symphony of Us, which takes place on and above the World Showcase Lagoon in the center of it all. Okay, get ready. I'm going to rapid-fire through all the different characters you can potentially see around the World Showcase, so stick with me.

Get ready, and let's go. Donald, the Three Caballeros version, likes to hang out in Mexico right outside the Mexico pyramid. Anna and Elsa have a set meet and greet spot inside the Royal Summerhouse at the Norway Pavilion. Average wait is 30 to 40 minutes for them. Mulan can often be found on or near the bridge right outside the China Pavilion signature temple.

Snow White wishes at her well near the Germany Pavilion. Jasmine has a meet and greet location that's kind of tucked away inside the Morocco Pavilion, so don't accidentally pass her by just cuz you don't see her right off the bat. Both Belle and Princess Aurora like to make their rounds throughout the France Pavilion, sometimes meeting at the little gazebo, sometimes meeting outside of it under the surrounding greenery. Alice and Mary Poppins like to take meet and greet turns at the English garden inside the UK Pavilion. Meanwhile, Winnie the Pooh is all like, "Yeah, I'm not going to stand outside in the heat with you gals." and chooses to host his UK Pavilion meet and greets inside Christopher Robin's room at the Toy Soldier gift shop.

And then there's Asha from the Disney movie Wish, who really doesn't have a designated pavilion that she hangs out in. You can find her throughout the day over at the World Showcase Plaza gazebo leading up to the entrance of the Mexico Pavilion. Now, DFB Pro tip, every now and then you can find secret character meet and greet spots around the World Showcase. One happens at the International Gateway between the UK and France Pavilion, and the other happens to the left of the American Adventure Pavilion. These secret character spots are referred to as character paloozas, which is Disney's preferred way to train cast members who want to become friends with the characters in a more low-key meet and greet environment.

And there you have it, all the rides and attractions in Epcot, at least for now. Who knows what the future has in store. If you want to keep the Disney World planning momentum going though, be sure to check out our other rides and attractions video for Magic Kingdom next. And don't forget to pick up our free Disney World planning worksheets today over at disneyfoodblog.com/disneyplans. Thanks for listening everyone and thanks for watching.

As always, this is AJ for Disney Food Blog and we'll see you real soon.
