# Every Disney World Ride Ranked — The Definitive 2026 List

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-B8irrZQmGU
Channel: DFBGuide
Duration: 34:52
Published: 2026-07-02
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:01:42.117406+00:00

## Transcript

This was one of, if not, the toughest DFB videos we decided to make yet because we're ranking every single Disney World ride across all the parks to find out which winner takes it all. Hey everybody, it's AJ from Disney Food Blog. Nope, not pulling your chain here. We're actually going to rank every single Disney World ride that currently exists in the parks in 2026 to find out which one triumphs over them all. Go ahead and put your predictions in the comments cuz things are about to get good.

Brea and I even are still surprised about the winner on this one. Before we get started, I just want to clear the air and say that this is all for fun and more than anything, the video is here to serve as a guide for all of Disney World's rides so that you can plan your theme park days accordingly. Base on what you like. We're also leaving out any sort of shows from this list, including shows that tow the line of being more ride-ish, like Carousel of Progress, because this video is already 16 pages long and Brea and I were like, "Oh my gosh, if we do all the shows, too, >> >> this is going to be like 17 hours." Since ranking all the rides is very, very difficult, we're breaking up this video into six categories: little kid rides, zen rides, coasters, extra thrills, screen rides, and dark rides. Do some of these rides overlap across categories?

Absolutely. We're just using our best judgement to help break things up and make things a little less confusing. And in each category, we're going to rank from good to better to the winner of each round. And then, we'll take all six category winners and pit them against each other in a final showdown. Okay, let's get ready to rumble!

Starting out with little kid rides. How do we define the little kid ride category? Well, these are going to be the rides that either are the best first ride for your little ones that they'll ever ride in Disney cuz they're that easy-going and there's usually no height requirement attached, or they're the rides that'll make your little cousins and kiddos pull at your pant leg begging you to go back on again and again and again. So, number nine in this list, the Magic Carpets of Aladdin in Magic Kingdom. It's not a bad ride.

It's just not one we're willing to wait over 15 minutes in an outdoor queue line for. And by the way, that dangling participle was my fault. That's actually not how Brea wrote it. So, you got to give her credit for the grammar there and take it away from me. Now, the Magic Carpets of Aladdin is a classic aerial carousel where you're going to board your own flying carpet and go around and around and around in a circle.

It's high or as low as you want to. And sometimes you might even get spit on by a camel, cuz that's Disney magic. It's cute, but it probably needs a little oil, and it's probably not going to be at the top of anyone's must-do list, unless you got like a huge Aladdin or Jasmine fan in the family. By the way, if you want to see all the height requirements for all of Disney World's rides, as well as specific ride locations and average wait times, go ahead and scan the QR code you see on the screen right now, or click on the link in the description for disneyfoodblog.com/rideheights. We're going to send you our complete breakdown of all those ride details for free, so you can just sort of look at that while we're going through the rest of these rides.

Number eight, the Mad Tea Party in Magic Kingdom. I know. I know. How is this one this low on the little kid list? Well, just stay tuned and you'll see why we had to put the rest of the stuff a little bit higher.

Now, Mad Tea Party is the original spinny cup ride, themed around Alice in Wonderland. It's an iconic teacup ride, but if you've ridden a spinny cup ride before, this one's really not too terribly different from the rest, except for the fact that the dormouse pops up from the lid of the teapot every now and then, which he's the special sauce for this one. Love you, dormouse. Number seven, the Tomorrowland Speedway in Magic Kingdom. It's like a go-kart track, but a whole lot more control than a whole lot slower, too.

I think Tomorrowland Speedway is a super fun concept for kiddos who are obsessed with cars and want the chance to drive their own in the safest environment possible, but beyond that, probably not worth waiting over 20 minutes for. Despite the fact that when my kid was little and he absolutely loved cars, I usually had to ride this about five or six times when I was in Magic Kingdom. Number six, Prince Charming Regal Carousel in Magic Kingdom. >> >> Anyone seeing a trend here? Lots of little kid rides in Magic Kingdom and Prince Charming Regal Carousel is one of the most iconic or at least the most ornate.

Is this ride super different from a classic carousel ride that you can find at like your mall? No, though it does have some gorgeous Cinderella artwork and calliope Disney tunes and a really incredible backstory. So, I'd say yes, try to go on this one if you have the chance to, but if you run out of time, don't get too broken up about it. Your kid can still ride a horse around the mall. You know what I mean.

Now, we're breaking the Magic Kingdom mold to dip into one of the trippiest rides in all of Disney World. Journey into Imagination with Figment takes riders into the Imagination Institute alongside Dr. Nigel Channing to explore the five senses, but things go really topsy-turvy when the mischievous purple dragon Figment decides to shake things up a little bit. There are a lot of things I could say about this dark ride, including the fact that it is a dark ride even though it's here in our kids rides sections. Like I said, overlap, right?

And this probably could have gone into dark rides. Again, lots of wiggle room with this one. But for brevity's sake, it's colorful, it's weird, it has the same fun special effects that'll tickle your brain, but it also has a few shocking moments that'll either get your kids giggling or leave them in tears if they're more of a super sensor like me who hates those sudden loud sounds and blasts of air to the face. Number four, Alien Swirling Saucers in Hollywood Studios. So, step one, board a saucer.

Step two, get flung around on said saucer with the help of those little green aliens while a randomized Toy Story song plays through the speakers. And step three, leave the ride feeling satisfyingly jostled. That's Alien Swirling Saucers in a nutshell for you. It's a ride without being one that'll leave you sick to your stomach for the rest of the day. Basically the same thing as the Mater ride in Cars Land in California Adventure and the Baymax happy ride over in Tokyo Disneyland.

Same vibe, cute ride, fun, but if you've ridden it before, you've ridden them all. Number three, Dumbo the Flying Elephant in Magic Kingdom. Now this one gets to be here in placement because it is just simply iconic, right? Every parent who brings their kid to Disney World thinks they're supposed to get a picture of their kid in the Dumbo ride. So, if you can only choose one aerial carousel to ride during your trip, then let it be this one.

You go up, you go down, you go around, but what really puts this one towards the top of our kiddie ride recommendations >> >> is the interactive queue. While you're waiting in line, there's a full-on circus themed playground indoors with the AC that kids can explore while waiting for their turn to ride a flying elephant. Now who knows, they might end up enjoying the equipment under the big top even more than the ride itself. Also, little extra super tip here, even if you don't ride Dumbo, your kids can still go play in this playground. So, heads up if you need some AC.

Number two, It's a Small World in Magic Kingdom. Yes, that song will get stuck in your head, but regardless, It's a Small World is a slow-going colorful boat ride featuring internationally inspired dolls that have stood the test of time time and time again. And the winner in this category, The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh in Magic Kingdom. Anyone shocked that a Magic Kingdom ride has won the little kids ride category? The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh is one that can easily become a favorite for kids and grownups alike.

You'll board a honey pot and be thrust into several well-known Hundred Acre Wood stories all back-to-back including bouncing along with Tigger, enduring a blustery day, and having a rather psychedelic run-in with a bunch of fluorescent Heffalumps and Woozles. Okay, we've made it to zen rides. Again, lots of zen rides probably overlap with little kid rides, but we're considering zen rides as the attractions that we grownups are more likely to prioritize, too, for their relaxing, smooth-sailing ambiance that helps to regulate the nervous system. There's also a high chance that adults might even like these rides way better than their kids will. So, number eight here is The Seas with Nemo and Friends in Epcot.

I guess this could have also been added to the little kid ride category and the dark ride category, but every time I board a clamshell to ride the seas with Nemo and Friends, I just feel like this wave of peace wash over me. It's not this super intricate dark ride or anything with a deep plot and high stakes, just a chill omnimover ride where you're on a hunt to find Nemo, again, which will take you through a canopy of jellyfish, across the EAC, and eventually take you to the grand finale where Nemo and Friends get to hang out with the actual fish living in Epcot's giant aquarium. Number seven, Gran Fiesta Tour starring The Three Caballeros in Epcot. It's not truly a visit to the Mexico Pavilion without a ride on Gran Fiesta Tour. This ride being in seventh place feels like an absolute crime because I truly love it, but then again, I think I just love Disney's zen rides in general.

You board a boat inside the Mexico Pavilion pyramid, which will take you past the San Angel Inn restaurant and into a slow-moving journey into the heart of Mexico where you, Panchito, and José Carioca will need to track down a missing Donald before they take to the stage. Or if you rode this one back in 2021, you might just give up on the hunt entirely and replace Donald with a potted plant wearing a sombrero. Yeah, that's They really did that. Number six, Na'vi River Journey in Animal Kingdom. Now, I think there's a world where Gran Fiesta Tour can definitely rank higher than Na'vi River Journey.

Gran Fiesta, at least, is usually a walk-on wait versus Na'vi River, which can get to be 45 to 50 minutes or more at times. However, we can't discount Na'vi River's beautiful bioluminescent atmosphere. The creatures are stunning, and best of all, that state-of-the-art shaman animatronic that feels like she could just stand up at any time and squash me like a bug. That wasn't very zen. She's very friendly, but like totally mesmerizing and seems super strong.

Number five, Jungle Cruise in Magic Kingdom. So, Jungle Cruise is a Disney attraction legend. You'll board the boat led by a real-life cast member skipper and cruise along several notable rivers of the world like the Nile, the Amazon, the Congo, and the Mekong while your skipper cracks joke after joke after joke all cruise long. You'll also get to see animatronic animals along the way as well as the backside of water. Number four, Kilimanjaro Safaris in Animal Kingdom.

While Jungle Cruise is a zen tour filled with animatronic animals and punny guides, Kilimanjaro Safaris is a zen tour with real animals and a truly informative guide that'll give you lots of facts and history behind each of the wildlife creatures who call this place home. Number three, Living with the Land in Epcot. So many Disney boat rides, y'all. I just love it here. Give me zen rides all the time.

Living with the Land is yet another Disney boat ride, but this one's going to start off by telling you about the history of farming followed by a tour through Epcot's real-life greenhouses where they grow several different fruits and veggies and plants that are actually used in Epcot restaurants. Again, it's a crime that this is number three on the list. The next three rides should all be number one on everybody's list forever. That's all I have to say. Okay, number two, Spaceship Earth in Epcot.

Much like Magic Kingdom was kiddie ride central, Epcot goes hard when it comes to zen / educational rides. We call it edutainment. In the case of Spaceship Earth, this is Epcot's ultimate edutainment dark ride because it's housed within the park icon herself. Yeah, that giant towering golf ball that you'll see right as you enter through the front gates. Spaceship Earth explores the history of communication with over 60 animatronics taking us along the timeline.

And as you start making your slow descent back to Earth, you'll get to take part in a little choose your own adventure quiz to help pass the time. And the winner in this category, numero uno, of course, the PeopleMover in Magic Kingdom. It's a big day for the unofficial PeopleMover fan club, my fellow club members, because PeopleMover is moving on to the final showdown. And as president of the unofficial PeopleMover fan club, I feel like it's my duty and honor to explain why it's earned the gold medal. PeopleMover is a tram ride that takes you above and around area in Magic Kingdom, while also giving you behind-the-scenes glimpses into Tomorrowland attractions, like Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin, Space Mountain, and the Star Traders gift shop.

It also has one of my favorite lines in any Disney ride, you H2O it to yourself. You'll also get to ride past a prototype for Epcot just to see what Walt's original intentions were for that park. PeopleMover is as zen as it gets, y'all, so grab your PeopleMover fan club tee from the DFBstore.com website, jump in line, and ride this one to your heart's content, because that's what I always do. Okay, we've taken things nice and easy and smooth for the first two categories, so let's take a 180 from the nervous system regulators over to the adrenaline spikers. Number nine, the Barnstormer in Magic Kingdom.

Yep, we're talking about coasters now, y'all. Adrenaline spiker may not be the right description for the Barnstormer. More so, this is a junior coaster that's a great option to start off with if your kids are just now tall enough to start dipping their toes into scene. It's a Goofy-themed super short coaster and can be a little bit jerky for us taller adults, but how your kids react to this ride is going to be a good indicator for how they're going to do with other coasters, too. Number eight, Space Mountain in Magic Kingdom.

At one point in time, Space Mountain probably would have been towards the top of the coaster rankings. For a long time, this was my favorite ride in Magic Kingdom, and I still love this ride. Truly, it always baffles me by how fast it feels, even though it never even reaches 30 mph, and it's all thanks to that near complete darkness that has you twisting and turning and taking on bunny hills amongst the stars. That being said, Space Mountain requires me to have my chiropractor on speed dial lately, so just a word of warning for you, brace yourself for some sharp turns that could lead to some sharp pains up and down your neck. But also, I think I've been spoiled by Disneyland's Space Mountain.

It's just a better ride stem to stern, and so going on Space Mountain in Magic Kingdom, which was the original Space Mountain, I get it, just kind of makes me go, "Ugh, couldn't they just revamp this one and make it like the one at Disneyland?" I know, I know, I know, I'm sorry. Number seven, Tron Lightcycle Run in Magic Kingdom. Now, I truly think that the main thing Tron Lightcycle Run suffers from is brevity. Otherwise, it's a solid coaster. You get to board your own lightcycle, take off on a 0 to 60 mph launch across the digital grid, and experience one of the smoothest coaster tracks of your life.

But the whole experience feels like you blink and it's over, which you kind of literally do cuz it's a minute long. So, just don't blink, okay? Okay. Number six, Seven Dwarfs Mine Train in Magic Kingdom. Seven Dwarfs Mine Train has been mega popular since it first opened back in 2014, and I think that's because it does a lot of things right.

It's got a smooth track, innovative train cars that gently rock back and forth, a ride system that's great for even the non-coaster fans since you don't have to worry about any sudden drops or launches or loop-de-loops or ultra-sharp turns, and it's even got a little dark ride section that takes you inside the diamond mine where the seven dwarfs themselves are hard at work dig dig digging away. However, you might still be disappointed by this one if you end up having to wait 75 minutes for it. So, try to either hit this one up during early theme park entry at Magic Kingdom or consider purchasing a single pass lightning lane so you don't have to worry about the line at all. Okay, Expedition Everest in Animal Kingdom. So, my script writer, Bria, moved this one towards the top of this category.

I moved it down, and we ended up compromising >> >> by placing it in the middle of the rankings. Expedition Everest takes you on a trip up, up, up into the mountains. You will soon discover that, surprise, the Yeti of the mountain snow doesn't want you to be up there invading her home, and that means you'll have to race back down the mountain again before she catches up with you. I'm not the world's biggest fan of Expedition Everest lately, obviously, cuz I put it down to the bottom. Just because the backwards track does make me feel super sick, and I wish the Yeti wasn't permanently stuck in disco mode, but that's a whole other story for another day.

However, there's no arguing that this is definitely one of Disney's most thrilling coasters that doesn't need any upside down loops or zero to 60 launches to make it as >> >> epic as it already is, and the views from this coaster are fabulous. Number four, Big Thunder Mountain Railroad in Magic Kingdom. It's not nearly as wild as it used to be. It's not going to shake any of your kidney stones loose anymore, but the new version of Big Thunder Mountain Railroad isn't one you're going to want to miss. Big Thunder Mountain now has a smoother track, updated train cart vehicles, new ride scenes like the Rainbow Caverns and the giant golden nugget reveal, and to top it all off, it has new height requirements, too.

Before, you needed to be 40 inches tall before you were allowed to ride, now it's been knocked down to 38 inches. Number three, Rock 'n' Roller Coaster starring the Muppets in Hollywood Studios. Aerosmith has stepped down, and the Muppets have stepped up. RnRC starring the Muppets is a lot, but that's not a bad thing. Quite the opposite, actually.

From sight gags in the queue, just like the Muppet Vision 3D days, to the pre-show with a scooter Muppet animatronic who looks like he's being legit puppeteered at all times, to a new randomized song track list featuring Teeth and the Electric Mayhem alongside well-known musical artists, and more. This launching, loop-de-looping indoor coaster might be the same coaster we've known for years now, but the re-rideability has improved tenfold. And that's cuz you're always bound to experience something new the next time you ride. Number two, Slinky Dog Dash in Hollywood Studios. In my heart, Slinky Dog is the true winner of the coaster category, but I have to be realistic here.

There's a clear coaster winner that'll be taking the gold today. But first, let me brag about my good pal Slink. Slinky Dog Dash is a family coaster where you're all aboard Slinky and take a ride above Toy Story Land. And then you'll encounter the grand finale, which is Wheezy the squeaker toy penguin serenading you as you pull into the station. Slinky's wait time can be unbearable if you're waiting for it during the heat of the day.

The whole queue is outside and only some of it is covered, and he can also be a little too intense for newer coaster riders. However, there's just so much to love about this one. It's colorful and whimsical, smooth. I love riding it at night, and it's thrilling without being overly so. Okay, winner of the coaster category is, of course, say it with me, Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind in Epcot.

If you've ridden Guardians, then you're probably not shocked to see it receive the green light for our final showdown. Cosmic Rewind is a backwards launching indoor coaster with a randomized '80s soundtrack and vehicles that can rotate 360°. Not to spin you around relentlessly like a wild mouse coaster, but rather to give you different views of what's playing out around you. Despite this one also making me a little bit queasy at times, I can't help but love it. I just can't ride it more than once like in a row, which usually the line for it's too long to do that anyway, so that's fine.

But the whole Cosmic Rewind experience is just a blast from the Xandar pavilion models around the queue to the Cosmic Generator magic trick pre-show to the lead-up for the big backwards launch where you can't help but anticipate which song you're going to get this time. Crossing my fingers for Everybody Wants to Rule the World. What about you? All right, moving on to the extra thrills. Not every thrill ride in Disney World can be categorized as a roller coaster, so here's the category that takes all of Disney's other adrenaline spikers and puts them against each other.

Number seven, Mission: SPACE in Epcot. Some folks will probably disagree about Mission: SPACE being ranked last in the extra thrills category, and I get it cuz Mission: SPACE is truly a one-of-a-kind rocket flight simulator that makes you feel like you're actually blasting off into space. And the intensity of said blast off is all determined by what mission you go on. The green mission is the less intense version that'll take you on a simulated flight around the Earth, but the orange mission is actually going to spin your flight pod up to 35 mph to create an honest-to-goodness G-force sensation where you'll have a hard time lifting your head from the headrest and you'll feel like the skin of your cheeks is being yanked off your cheekbones. There'll even be complimentary barf bags in front of you, which, you know, always comforting.

Now, I really struggled with where to put Astro Orbiter in this ranking video. Technically, it's an aerial carousel similar to Dumbo and Magic Carpets of Aladdin, but it's also one that takes an elevator to reach the boarding platform. And then the rockets themselves can get as high as 60 ft in the air. Lots of members of our DFB team refuse to ride Astro Orbiter just because of the height factor as well as the cramped rocket pods. But if you're okay with heights and a lack of legroom, Astro Orbiter does give you an extremely unique view across Magic Kingdom.

Kali River Rapids is a family raft river ride. Not a bad one, but not the best one out there. Honestly, as far as family river raft rides go, it's pretty forgettable. I like really river run out in Disney California Adventure a whole lot more. That being said, if you got kids who love water rides, hit this one up in the morning so you can beat the crowds and have the rest of the day to dry off.

Test Track kind of feels like a roller coaster, especially there towards the end where your vehicle launches out of the building from 0 to 65 mph, but really Test Track is a high-speed slot car style ride that'll pull you along from show scene to show scene mostly in a smooth and steady fashion, but with a few sharp turns and sudden brake slams along the way. Last year, TestTrack reopened with a brand new look. So, now instead of it seeming more Tron-like, it takes you on a journey to showcase technological advances in transportation, like the spirit of the old ride that used to be here before TestTrack was ever a thought, World of Motion. Tiana's Bayou Adventure is complicated. I think it's got a whole lot of room for improvement, but at the same time it's still a whole lot of fun and incredibly impressive.

This log flume will have you following Princess Tiana and Louis the Gator as they scramble to find a band to play during the town's big Mardi Gras celebration. This is a long ride coming in hot at 12 minutes, and the animatronics are wildly impressive as long as they're working. Not to mention, the little critters in each scene are super cute, and you just got to love that five-story drop during the grand finale. But, brace yourself, front row riders, cuz you're apt to get soaked on this one. If it hadn't been a staple ride for Disney since 1994, I wouldn't believe it was a Disney ride at all.

It's just so incredibly dark, arguably even darker than Haunted Mansion. But, that's also a big reason why big kids love this one. Tower of Terror is an indoor drop tower that takes you back to Halloween night in 1939, when the Hollywood Tower Hotel was suddenly struck by lightning, dooming the people within its service elevator to a life trapped inside the Twilight Zone. I know, gives you all the warm fuzzies, huh? There's a lot going on with this drop tower.

Not only does it have a random drop sequence, so you never know how many times you're going to end up dropping during your next ride through, but it also has a dark ride element where your elevator vehicle will lift out of its initial shaft and make its way across the room and then connect to the actual drop portion of the ride. But, the winner in this category is, of course, Rise of the Resistance in Hollywood Studios. Hollywood Studios knows how to thrill us to the core with their A-tier thrill rides, and Rise is the best of it. Rise isn't thrilling like how a Tower of Terror will drop you 13 stories or how Mission Space will spin you around till you're weak in the knees and in the stomach, but it is thrilling in the way you'll be thrust into the Star Wars story yourself starting with the pre-show and going through a true story arc of your experience on that spoiler alert First Order ship. Between the live actors, realistic animatronics, trackless dark ride tech, unexpected tummy drops, and more, this ride doesn't let up and you're stepping back into the planet of Batu again.

Okay, screen rides. Disney World doesn't have a whole lot of screen rides, but the ones that they do have are top of the line and a lot more than just a film playing out in front of you. Number five is Star Tours in Hollywood Studios. You know the options on this list are going to be fire as the kids say when Star Tours is in last place cuz Star Tours is still a really good ride. You board a star speeder accidentally being piloted by C-3PO and launch into hyperspace as you try to protect the rebel board your ship.

Who's the rebel spy? Changes every ride through, might even be you. Speaking of changes every ride through, Star Tours is a different experience every time you ride thanks to its randomized world sequences and character encounters. So, there's a whole lot of re-rideability on this one, which is great considering the lines for it on average are never that long in the first place. Now, Toy Story Mania is the rootinest tootinest blaster ride in the wild west.

Toy Story Mania is like one big video game. You'll encounter different carnival-style levels racking up points by either rings around aliens or breaking plates or popping balloons to try to get the highest score in your group. So, >> >> definitely try to win best in vehicle and obnoxiously brag about it for the rest of the day. Or, if you're more of a humble brag, you can just grab our Midway Mania Champion tee from the dfbstore.com website and immediately slip it on after your big victory. Let it do the gloating for you.

Now, when you're on Millennium Falcon Smugglers Run, you're on more than just a screen ride. You're inside the Millennium Falcon and you've got a job to do either as pilot, gunner, or engineer. And yes, how well you perform those roles does impact the mission. No pressure. At the end of May this year, Smugglers Run updated to include Mando and Grogu as well as more locations to explore.

So, while it might not have as many re-writability possibilities as Star Tours, there's still a high chance that the second time you ride Smugglers Run will be completely different than the first. We've seen Soarin change a lot over the years, but in a nutshell, Soarin takes you flying over a lot of different iconic landmarks and places maybe you've only dreamed of ever visiting. The consistent thing about this flying theater, no matter which version you get to experience, is its beautiful swelling score and breathtaking aerial views, piped-in scents that you'll want a candle for, and that longing tug to ride it again and again just cuz you can't get enough of it. There you go, Animal Kingdom. You got a win under your belt now.

And what a win it is. Flight of Passage takes the light cycle vehicles of Tron combined with the 3D effects of Toy Story Mania and the flying theater technology of Soarin to create this epic feeling of flying across the world of Pandora on the back of your own banshee. It almost feels like a spiritual journey, really, from the goosebump-inducing soundtrack to the eye candy locations to the sheer fact that you can feel your banshee breathe as you ride it. Flight of Passage is just one of the most impressive screen rides out there right now with a good bit of thrills thrown in the mix, too. Now, this category was a tough one.

I know a lot of y'all out there have strong opinions on this one because if there's one type of ride that Disney's most known for, it's their numerous standout dark rides. So, let's get to ranking. Number eight, Under the Sea: Journey of the Little Mermaid in Magic Kingdom. Now, this has seen better days, but regardless, it's still an adorable omnimover ride that takes you through the entire story of The Little Mermaid, giving you the chance to sing along with lots of animatronics and learn exactly why life is the bubbles under the sea. Buzz Lightyear, if I had a nickel for every Toy Story themed ride in Disney World that required me to blast targets and compete for high scores, I'd have two nickels.

And yet, Buzz Lightyear Space Ranger Spin still has a very different feel from Toy Story Mania due to the practical sets and the blacklight color schemes and the space theming instead of carnival theming. And the recent updates to the ride vehicles with brand new blasters, targets, and additional scenes. Number six is Frozen Ever After in Epcot. Now, Frozen Ever After could have gone under several of today's categories. Little kid rides and Zen rides would have fitted, too.

But in the end, we settled on the dark ride category because, well, Frozen Ever After is indeed a dark ride and a dark boat ride at that. At the start of this year, Epcot went ahead and replaced all the original projected face Frozen animatronics with the latest animatronic technology, like you'll see represented in Tiana's Bayou Adventure. And the Frozen cast is now looking better than ever. While there are a few more slightly thrilling moments during this dark ride, like a little bit of backwards track and a tiny drop during the finale, the story stakes aren't super high for this one. You're just here for the vibes and to celebrate the big day alongside everyone else.

Mickey and Minnie's Runaway Railway is revolutionary in a lot of ways. The biggest one being this is the only ride besides the duplicate version over in Disneyland in Anaheim that actually stars Mickey and Minnie. Runaway Railway does a lot of things right. It's got a smooth trackless dark ride system, a 2.5D technology that helps the sets pop without needing 3D glasses, and high energy and high stakes all ride long. Plus, there are just so many details hiding out in each of the ride scenes, so you're bound to catch something new each time you go back on.

But I will say I have a bit of unresolved beef with Runaway Railway just cuz it replaced the ever glorious Great Movie Ride that I'll never fully get over and I kind of wish they'd use the classic Mickey animation versus the new age stuff, but that's just me being thoroughly creeped out by a pantless Goofy. Remy's Ratatouille Adventure is a cute one. You board a rat, you scurry around the kitchen with Remy and Co., and you try to escape the dastardly clutches of Chef Skinner. Is Remy's Ratatouille Adventure also a screen ride? Yes, but the additional real sets throughout the attraction help combine the screen tech and practical effects in a super cohesive efficient way all the way through this trackless dark ride.

Not only that, but last year Disney also went ahead and updated Remy's screen tech from 3D screens to a much crisper 2D digital projection, meaning they could ditch the 3D glasses altogether. Unlike your average dark ride where the track weaves around the ground like you'd expect it to, Peter Pan's Flight uses an overhead track to give you the sensation that you're flying over London and Neverland alongside Peter and Tink, Wendy, and the rest of the Lost Boys crew. This has been one of the Magic Kingdom's most popular dark ride since it first opened back in 1971, just a couple days after Magic Kingdom opened, and while yes, it has been showing its age in parts and Captain Hook could probably use a new voice narration to make him sound more Captain Hooky, this dark ride is charming, unique, and proof that sometimes all you really need in life is a little faith, trust, and pixie dust. Ah, and here we have it, the big controversy of this category. Yep, we've decided to place Pirates of the Caribbean in second place instead of moving it along to the final showdown, but it's not because we don't love it.

Pirates of the Caribbean is a slow-moving boat ride with a little bitty dip at the beginning leading you into a world of swashbuckling, plank walking, and cannonball blasting. I mean, it's legendary. It's full of audio animatronics, the sets are decked out from floor to ceiling, and if you aren't singing a pirate's life for me by the end of it, you're just doing the ride wrong. There's just one dark ride that we think beats out Pirates by just a smidge, and that is the winner, Haunted Mansion in Magic Kingdom. Yep, Haunted Mansion has earned its rightful place in the final showdown for all the right and highly unsettling reasons.

This omnimover dark ride takes you through a ghostly manor filled with 999 happy haunts that are ready to both welcome you and warn you about what it means to become a permanent resident here. Haunted Mansion does not hold back. You'll encounter ghostly ballroom dances, Madame Leota's famous seance, a murderous bride who takes till death do us part a little too seriously, and a whole bunch of kooky characters that you can't help but slightly adore, even if you'd rather them still keep their distance. It's the perfect blend of spooky without being jump scary, meaning keeping you morbidly curious about what's up ahead. All righty, friends, we've made it.

It's the final showdown time. Which Disney World ride is the best of the best? Well, we're finding out right here, right now, once and for all. In sixth place, we've got The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh. It was impressive that Winnie made it to the final showdown in the first place, so we got to give it props for that.

This dark ride does a great job at telling a lot of different stories in one dark ride experience, while also catering to everybody. Even if you're going to the Magic Kingdom with your Disney adults-only group, you'll still more than likely want to make time for this one. Fifth place, to my great chagrin, goes to the People Mover. Yeah, that was a tough decision, but I'm trying not to let my own bias as the president of the unofficial People Mover fan club derail the whole script, but that doesn't mean I love People Mover any less just because it didn't sweep today's competition. It's always going to sweep the competition in my heart.

It's still a one-of-a-kind ride, while also being super easy-going, and I love it. Fourth place goes to Rise of the Resistance, and I know that's going to cause an uproar, but hopefully y'all will understand where we're coming from with our top three winners. Let me we say this, from its animatronics to its multiple immersive pre-shows to its trackless technology, thrills, and larger-than-life sets, to its story that gets you wrapped up and part of the battle from the beginning, Rise of the Resistance is nothing short of jaw-dropping. Now, third place goes to Ooh, everybody's going to be mad. Cosmic Rewind.

And a worthy bronze medal win this has been. Now, Cosmic is our favorite coaster in all of Disney World at the moment, thanks to its teleportation illusion in the pre-show and brand new coaster concept that somehow incorporates plenty of thrills without the track being too rough or intense. And I know that a lot of you are going to disagree with this being in third place of best rides in Disney World. But, number two, yep, we're going to go with nostalgia and legacy for number two, Haunted Mansion. We always exit the Haunted Mansion doom buggy wanting to learn everything we can about the characters who eternally reside there.

And I think that says everything about how incredibly well this dark ride tells a story while also getting us to care about the characters within. And the re-rideability is absolutely top-notch, even though it literally doesn't change. And the winner of today's ride ranking competition is Flight of Passage. Every single Disney World park had a ride that made the final showdown. I love that.

And I love that Animal Kingdom is getting its time to bask in the victory because this park needed a win this year. Just watch our Disney World park rankings video next and you'll see why. Flight of Passage is amazing, truly, with its unique layers of immersion, compelling story, and one-of-a-kind Imagineering. It's definitely earned the gold medal. And as Glinda the Good Witch would say, I couldn't be happier.

Okay, now it's your turn. Which Disney World ride earns the gold medal in your heart? Let us know in the comments. Be sure to thumbs up today's video if you want to see more like it in the future. And don't forget to pick up our free rides height guide if you didn't have the chance to do so earlier.

There's lots more information in it besides just the heights. So, if you want a full list of all those rides and everything you need to know about them, it's right there for you over at disneyfoodblog.com/rideheights. Thanks for listening, everyone, and thanks for watching. As always, this is AJ for Disney Food Blog, and we'll see you real soon.
