# Magic Kingdom RIDES & ATTRACTIONS - 2026 - Walt Disney World

Source: youtube.com/watch?v=xildReaEZ2w&pp=ygUabWFnaWMga2luZ2RvbSBkaXNuZXkgd29ybGQ%3D
Channel: Theme Park 101
Duration: 15:53
Published: 2025-12-19
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:19:43.624965+00:00

## Chapters

- 0:00 Magic Kingdom
- 0:46 Main Street, U.S.A.
- 2:00 Adventureland
- 3:45 Frontierland
- 5:10 Liberty Square
- 5:56 Fantasyland
- 9:50 Tomorrowland
- 12:15 Parades and Nighttime Shows
- 13:41 Events
- 14:00 COMING SOON

## Transcript

Welcome to Magic Kingdom, the beating heart of Walt Disney World, where classic Disney charm meets a brand new era of imagination. In 2026, the park you think you know is bursting with fresh magic, re-imagined attractions, dazzling parades, and surprises around every corner. From old school favorites to exciting new adventures, this is a place where nostalgia and next level thrills ride side by side. Hello there, I'm Mike and welcome to Theme Park 101. That's right.

Today, we'll be taking a look at all the rides, shows, and attractions in the incredible Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida. Don't forget to stick around until the end of the video as we take a sneak peek at what new attractions and lands will be coming to the amazing Magic Kingdom over the next few years. Once you enter the park, you'll be heading straight into the iconic Main Street, USA. Filled with an array of amazing shops, restaurants, and attractions, all set inside the beautiful historic buildings that make up this opening land. You'll actually walk under the first attraction in this guide, the classic Walt Disney Railroad, a magical train ride that takes you on a scenic journey around a section of Magic Kingdom.

Due to the construction of some exciting new additions to the park, the railroad currently takes guests to and from Main Street USA and Fantasy Land with the usual loop track returning once construction is completed. Next up, you can head to the Town Square Theater to meet Mickey and Minnie in their amazing magician outfits. Or why not take a ride on one of the main street vehicles that will whisk you away on a one-way trip from the town square to the central plaza right in front of Cinderella's castle. Here is where you can catch a showing of Mickey's Magical Friendship Fair, a unique stage show performed in front of the castle that features a host of lovable Disney characters and classic songs from films such as Tangled, Frozen, and Princess and the Frog. You can learn more about the parades and nighttime shows that can be found in this area a little later in the video.

In this main hub area of the park, you can find pathways to all the other lands, where we'll begin with my favorite area, Adventure Land. a lush tropical section filled with jungles, exotic sites, and classic Disney adventures. You'll first come to the Swiss Family Treehouse, a walkthrough attraction based on the classic Disney film Swiss Family Robinson that is filled with plenty of hidden secrets and lots of amazing views of the whole land. Next up is The Jungle Cruise, the adventurous boat ride that takes you on an expedition through different jungles from around the world as you encounter lots of different scenes filled with wildlife, explorers, and of course, the backside of water. Don't worry, as you'll have your very own skipper to guide you through your journey as they describe your surroundings in their classic comedic style, which adds another layer to this fantastic adventure.

You'll next come to the magic carpets of Aladdin, the fun spinning ride which gives you the chance to fly on a magic carpet as you take in the beautiful surrounding scenery, making it perfect for the younger guests. And nearby, you'll also be able to meet Aladdin and Jasmine throughout the day at their special meet and greet location. Opposite is Walt Disney's Enchanted Tiki Room, the classic show that has been delighting guests since the park's opening day with the amazing audio animatronic birds, flowers, and totem poles singing the beloved soundtrack. Further into Adventure Land is The Pirates of the Caribbean, the amazing dark boat ride that takes you on a journey through many different scenes featuring an epic battle, pirates taking over a town, some lost treasure, and of course, the infamous Captain Jack Sparrow makes an appearance, resulting in a mustride attraction in the park. If you love this ride, then you can try Pirates Adventure: Treasure of the Lost Seas, a special interactive experience where you join Captain Jack on secret missions to find some hidden treasure.

It's now time to leave this incredible land as we move on to the next area, Frontier Land that transports you to the untamed Wild West that roars to life with runaway trains, river legends, and thrills straight out of American history. First up is Tiana's Bio Adventure, the incredible log flume ride that takes you out on a thrilling journey with Tiana and the jazz-loving alligator Louie through winding waterways as you search for critter musicians to perform at Tiana's Grand Celebration. You'll shoot down a number of drops which may get you a little soaked before joining the awesome Mardigra party scene, making this a great attraction for all the family to enjoy. Next up is the amazing Big Thunder Mountain Railroad, the mine train roller coaster that takes you on an exciting adventure through the abandoned mines of Tumbleeed. This has been under maintenance for the whole of 2025.

But don't worry, as it will be making its big return with a whole new track and exciting updates in spring 2026. Behind this attraction and next door in the former Rivers of America is where major construction is currently underway. So keep watching as you can find out more about these incredible additions at the end of the video. Back into the main section of Frontier Land, we head to another amazing show, Country Bear Musical Jamberee. A great performance featuring the lovable audio animatronic bears singing classic Disney songs in their unique country style.

Also, if you're lucky enough, you may even get the chance to meet one of the country bears roaming nearby in Frontier Land. We now leave the Great Frontier and head into another historic American land, Liberty Square, where you step into revolutionary times as history comes alive through stately streets, patriotic stories, and a few spooky surprises. We begin with the Hall of Presidents, a multimedia presentation and stage show featuring audio animatronic figures of all 45 individual United States presidents as they share a slice of classic American history. The other attraction in Liberty Square is the Haunted Mansion, the classic omni mover dark ride that offers great theming and a fun story line, as well as one of the greatest ride pre-shows in the infamous stretching room. You'll head through a number of spooky scenes featuring lots of ghostly haunts and amazing special effects that is perfect for all the family.

We now head into fantasy land that invites guests into a magical storybook world inspired by Disney's most timeless animated films. We begin with a popular boat ride, It's a Small World, that features over 300 colorful dolls in traditional costumes from cultures around the world and a catchy theme song that is bound to get stuck in your head for days. Opposite is Peter Pan's Flight, the amazing dark ride that takes you through some memorable scenes from the admired Disney animation on board your very own flying ship. This is one of the most popular rides in the park. So, I would recommend either getting here early or plan accordingly.

In the center of Fantasy Land is the Prince Charming Regal Carousel, the classic spinning merrygoround, where you can choose to ride one of the amazing handpainted horses. And I suggest riding this at night to enjoy the amazing litup scenery around the area, making it an even more magical experience. Next is the 3D show Mickey's Philhar Magic that is filled with Disney characters in a fun story line where you join Donald Duck as he goes through scenes from classic Disney animations including Fantasia, The Lion King, The Little Mermaid, as well as the more recent fan favorite Pixar's Coco. On the other side of the carousel, you can meet your favorite Disney princesses at the Princess Fairy Tale Hall, where guests of all ages can meet the likes of Cinderella, Tiana, Rapunzel, and many more. And don't forget, younger guests can dress up as their favorite princess or prince and get a complete makeover at the nearby Bibbid Bobby Boutique.

Next up is the Seven Dwarves Mine Train. The steel-based family co-star where you'll head through a diamond mine with all the dwarfs and watch out for the appearance of the witch arriving to give Snow White the poison apple. This is a great little co-star filled with classic storyline elements, making it ideal for all the family to enjoy. Nearby is another whimsical dark ride, the many adventures of Winnie the Pooh as you join Pooh Bear and all your favorite characters through many exciting scenes including bouncing with Tiger and a healer dream sequence. This is another popular ride, so make sure you leave plenty of time to enjoy this awesome attraction.

Next is the spinning teacup ride, Mad Tea Party, based on the memorable Umbbirthday party scene from Alice in Wonderland, where you can enjoy this fun Disney dizzy experience and look out for the hidden door mouse that appears on top of the teapot. Also, you can meet Mirabel from the popular Encanto movie in the nearby fairy tale garden at various times throughout the day. Next, we head to the back of Fantasy Land to a special character experience at Enchanted Tales with Belle, where you can relive the classic story before meeting with a princess inside the Beast Castle. Further round is Under the Sea: Journey of the Little Mermaid, another omni mover dark ride that takes you under the sea, where you'll experience an adventure with all your favorite characters and classic songs. In this section, you'll also have the chance to meet the Little Mermaid, Ariel, inside her grotto throughout the day.

In the final section of Fantasy Land, the Storybook Circus, you can find Dumbo the Flying Elephant, the classic Disney spinning attraction that will dazzle younger and older guests alike, and also includes an indoor interactive play area, making a great waiting area before you take flight. Next up is The Barntormer, a junior roller coaster featuring Goofy as a famous stump man, the Great Goofini. It's a nice little coaster and a great way to introduce younger kids to thrilling rides. You can also meet Goofy, Minnie, Donald, and Daisy Duck at Pete's silly slideshow. And younger guests will love playing at the special wet play area, Casey Jr.

Splash and Soak Station. Also, check out the merchandise location called Big Top Souvenirs, where you can grab a special free map and sticker pack to help you find all eight of the awesome smellants on Parade that are uniquely designed and all have different aromas. Also in this area is the Fantasy Land station for the Walt Disney Railroad that can take you straight back to the entrance of the park in Main Street, USA. It's now time to move on to the final land in Magic Kingdom, the amazing Tomorrowland that combines a retro future style with exciting adventures beyond Earth. You'll first come to the Tomorrowland Speedway, where you can drive your very own miniature gas-powered car around a unique track as you take in the amazing views.

And this is a great attraction for younger guests that want to experience driving for the first time. Next is the rocket spinner attraction, Astro Orbiter, that takes center stage in the land and will take guests on an out of thisworld experience that also gives amazing views of Tomorrowland. Beneath this is our next attraction, the Tomorrowland Transit Authority People Mover. The elevated tram ride that gives you an awesome perspective of the land as you see plenty of incredible diaramas, including the original Walt Disney model of Epcot, as well as the inside of some of the attractions in the land like Space Mountain and Buzz Lightyear Space Ranger Spin, making it a hidden gem for Disney Park fans. We now come to Tron Light Cycle Run, the amazing launch coaster based on the sci-fi film Tron Legacy that includes a cool, sleek design and motorcycle styled ride cars.

Join the grid as you shoot straight outside before heading back into a battle with other riders, making this one of the most thrilling rides in the park and is a must for any coaster fans. Next is the amazing Space Mountain, the classic indoor roller coaster that is a great atmospheric experience that takes you on an intergalactic journey. It features two different tracks that actually mirror each other. And as most of the ride is in almost darkness, you can never tell which way you're going, making it a very exciting adventure. Right next door is Walt Disney's Carousel of Progress, the special show set in a rotating theater, as it shows the development of technology throughout the years with the use of a family of amazing audio animatronics that are still as impressive today as they were when created over 60 years ago.

Next, we have Buzz Lightyear Space Ranger Spin. the shooting dark ride that lets you compete with your family and friends to get the highest score as you help Buzz Lightyear take on the evil emperor Zurg. This is another attraction that has recently gone through major refurbishments and will reopen in spring 2026. The final attraction in Tomorrowland is Monsters Inc. Laugh Floor, the funny show that chooses guests to create some familyfriendly laughs.

Different monsters perform their sets with lots of audience interactions, making each show very unique and different every time. As mentioned before, there is also plenty of live entertainment and nighttime spectaculars that can be viewed throughout the park. First up is the Disney Adventure Friends Cavalcade, which has plenty of popular Disney characters, including Miguel from Coco, Mirabel and Bruno from Encanto, and lots more. It follows the regular parade route starting in Frontier Land, passing through Liberty Square before heading down Main Street, USA. So, there are lots of great areas to catch this amazing performance.

Next up is the incredible Disney Festival of Fantasy Parade that features seven amazing floats celebrating all things Fantasy Land. Look out for Peter Pan, Sleeping Beauty, Tangled, plus a host of princesses, and of course, Mickey and Friends. With an original soundtrack and other amazing special effects, you won't want to miss this one. Also, in the evenings, you can enjoy Disney Starlight, Dream the Night Away, the magical nighttime parade that is brought to life by the Blue Fairy and celebrates characters from Peter Pan, Encanto, Frozen, and much more on various colorful floats that sparkle throughout the night. Finally, we have the popular nighttime spectacular Happily Ever After.

the incredible show that features dazzling fireworks, beloved Disney music, and immersive projection effects on the Cinderella Castle as it transforms along with the show. Expect to see and hear all your favorite Disney characters and songs in this amazing performance that is the perfect way to wrap up your spectacular day at Magic Kingdom. Before we take a look at the new lands and attractions coming to the park, don't forget the two special events that are held throughout the year. Mickey's Nots So Scary Halloween Party and Mickey's Very Merry Christmas Party that are both separate ticketed evening events and includes unique entertainment, parades, and lots of special treats. We'll now take a look at the future of the Magic Kingdom, beginning with the replacement of Tom Sawyer's Island and the Rivers of America that will be transformed into Pistons Peak, a brand new land based on Pixar's cars, and will feature a rustic national park environment along with two attractions, walking trails, as well as all new shopping and dining locations.

The first ride will be a thrilling rally race through the mountains with wild terrain as you encounter geysers, mud holes, and climb a number of mountain trails on this fun off-road adventure. The other attraction will be geared towards younger racers and will most likely be a smaller flat ride, but still lots of fun nonetheless. Construction for this new land is well underway with an estimated opening in 2027 at the earliest. And that's not all, as it has also been announced that Beyond Big Thunder Mountain will be an allnew villainsbased land that will take inspiration from all the different evildoers from Disney Classics. It will feature two major rides that will most likely include a new co-star as well as a more story-based attraction and a chance to meet all your favorite infamous villains throughout the land.

With an overall art noo style, this will be a complete tone shift compared to the rest of the park and another exciting addition that many fans are eagerly waiting for. Construction for Villains Land is on the horizon with many people predicting a 2029 or 2030 opening time frame. This will be the largest expansion project the Magic Kingdom has ever completed and means there is lots to look forward to over the next few years. I hope you enjoyed the video and if you would like to help support, then consider subscribing for free and take a look at my channel for attraction guides for lots of different theme parks around the world. If you want to know more about the attractions at another park in Walt Disney World, then check out these guide videos here.

Thanks for watching and I'll see you next time on Theme Park 101.
