# The ULTIMATE Guide to Animal Kingdom in 2026

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TjCV6bIAnBU
Channel: DFBGuide
Duration: 27:55
Published: 2025-11-25
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:29:54.919094+00:00

## Chapters

- 0:00 Animal Kingdom in 2026
- 1:04 Dinoland USA closure
- 3:01 New attractions and events
- 3:51 Park events and holidays
- 5:52 New snack switcheroos
- 10:30 Classic park snacks
- 12:32 Top dining picks
- 15:29 Nomad Lounge experience
- 17:12 Animal Kingdom rides
- 20:04 Character meet and greets
- 21:37 Park shows and entertainment
- 23:50 Full day itinerary planning

## Transcript

Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. What do you mean 2026 at Animal Kingdom is going to be completely different? Well, just you wait. Animal Kingdom is undergoing some major changes. So, let's prepare for whatever this wildlife focused Disney World park decides to throw our way in the new year today on DFB Guide.

Hey everybody, it's AJ for Disney Food Vlog and welcome to the ultimate guide for Animal Kingdom 2026. Whether this is going to be your first time at Animal Kingdom or you're about to head back for the eenth time, make sure to stick around cuz we got changes, recommendations, tips, and news that are going to impact every type of Disney guest, both new and veteran alike. It's quiet. A little too quiet. While Animal Kingdom is sure to have its busy days next year, there's also a good chance the crowds won't be nearly as crowdy as they've been for this park in the past, and this isn't normally Disney World's busiest park in the first place.

So, why is that? Well, all throughout 2025, we watch the Dinoand USA area of this park experience its phased closures that'll finally be wrapping up on February 2nd, 2026 when everything's gone. So far, we've lost the Dino Land snack stands, the Btier rides and Boneyard play area. We've lost the gift shop and carnival games, and to round it all out, the final day you can experience the last parts of Dino Land, aka the dinosaur ride and restaurantosaurus, RIP, will be on February 1st. So, expect that day in particular to be a very busy one for Animal Kingdom with locals and out oftowners alike swinging by to say their final farewells.

Letting go of Dino Land is going to be rough, but this has already felt like the world's slowest band-aid rip since we've known about this closure for a good long while now. And we've known about it this long because Animal Kingdom will be replacing Dino Land USA with a tropical America's themed PBLO Esparonza, opening later on in 2027. PBlo Espiranza is going to give us three new attractions. One Indiana Jones inspired, one Encanto inspired, and one that looks like a wood carved carousel featuring several Disney animal characters. That one's going to replace Triceratops Spin, as well as what Disney claims is going to be their biggest theme park quick service yet.

Yay for giant fast food restaurants. So, we're really excited to see all this start taking shape. But the bad news is that if you're planning on going to Animal Kingdom in 2026, after February 1st, you're going to have a whole lot less to do here for a little while. But the good news is that since many folks might hold off on an Animal Kingdom trip until the brand new area opens up shop in 2027, this might be the perfect time to go when everything's still super duper chill. No virtual cues, no massive crowds rushing towards the backside of the park.

No added stress, just a nice easygoing Animal Kingdom day where you can say hi to the wildlife and hit up a few rides and munch on a few snacks and take it easy. Maybe ride the back of a banshee. I don't know. And if you're still hoping to see at least something new while you're here in 2026, then Animal Kingdom won't leave you completely high and dry. Recently, Zootopia Better You Gather opened inside the Tree of Life, bringing a fun, fresh 4D experience in the park.

We haven't seen crowds get too terribly bad for this one, so you should be able to pop in line for it and watch it whenever you get the chance to during your Animal Kingdom day. So, how else can you add a little bit of spice to your Animal Kingdom visit when this place is going to be down an entire land? By visiting when there's a special holiday going on. We keep track of Disney World's various holidays, both classic and underrated and completely made up, on our Disney World 12-month calendar, which you can pick up today for free by scanning the QR code that you see on the screen or by clicking on the link in the description for Disneyfoodblog.com/wdwcal after this. But for now, let's review some of the Animal Kingdom specific events you can try to plan your vacation around next year.

First things first, looks like we're getting more extended evening hours in Animal Kingdom for the tail end of 2025 and starting back up in 2026, too. We love this. Extended evening hours are reserved for Disney's Deluxe Hotel guests only, giving you two extra hours of park time post park closing on select days in select parks. You can also find the parks offering extended evening hours when you're logged into My Disney Experience on the Disney World website. Currently, it doesn't look like Animal Kingdom offering separate ticketed after hours events yet in 2026, but we'll update you if that status changes.

However, Disney Vacation Club or DVC members will be able to take advantage of Animal Kingdom's Moonlight Madness event on January 20th, 2026. These events do not cost DVC members anything extra to attend, but you do need to register for them ahead of time. A member can register themselves and up to four additional guests per membership for a total of five people. One of the most exciting months to visit Animal Kingdom though is during the month of April, specifically on April 22nd because that is Earth Day, which you know that's a very big deal for a park that's home to hundreds of different wildlife species. But it also happens to be Animal Kingdom's birthday.

So, this park likes to really go all out with those celebratory shenanigans specifically on April 22nd, though you're bound to see rare characters, exclusive treats, limited time photo ops, and more throughout the rest of the month, too. Finally, while Animal Kingdom doesn't go as over the top with the Christmas festivities as the other three Disney World parks do, they still like to get into the holiday spirit towards the end of the year with their merry menagerie winter puppets around Discovery Island. The Tree of Life Awakenings, holiday edition show that projects across the park's icon, the Tree of Life after the sun sets, the beautiful Dewali decorations around the Asia section of the park, and even Santa Claus meet and greets, too. Hey, Santa's not going to leave out the animals. He needs to know what they want for Christmas.

And it's not just Animal Kingdom's lands and attractions that are experiencing major changes. It's Animal Kingdom snack scene, too. Here are the top six new snack switcheroos that we've seen lately that'll more than likely impact your 2026 snacking itineraries, too. And watch this space, please, because Animal Kingdom has been playing snack musical chairs for like months now. And it is just giving us whiplash where all these things are moving around.

But we're staying on top of it for you, I promise. Okay, first new snack change, the new Arapus. So, Smiling Crocodile Snack Stand over on Discovery Island tends to be the center of the Animal Kingdom snack news lately, even though it's located in a pretty inconspicuous spot inside the park and has some of the shortest operating hours. Running from 11:00 a.m. to 300 p.m., but you can find this spot steps away from Flame Tree Barbecue and hit it up during the time it's actually open to be able to try one or both of the new arabas here.

First, you've got the pulled pork cheese arrapa made with pulled pork, queso fresco, and salsa verde. Then you've got the pulled chicken cheese ora made with pulled chicken and avocado dressing, queso fresco, and salsa verde. Both are also served as a side of plantain chips. Not to give you spoilers for future DFB videos, but this one's a top snack contender for 2026. Tender and juicy meat, melty cheese, and a whole lot of it.

Yeah, why wouldn't these be top snack contenders? They're the snack we never knew we were missing inside this park until now. And Animal Kingdom's really good at doing that, too. You kind of sneak in excellent stuff in without you even realizing. That's why you watch us.

Right. Right. Okay. Number two, new loaded hot dogs. Okay.

Speaking of Animal Kingdom snack booths that tend to fly under the radar, let's check out what's going on over at Terara Treats, also in Discovery Island. I know you've never heard of these places, right? Surprise. For the longest time, Terror Treats was the place to pick up thick pizza slices during your park day. But now, it switched personalities to provide a home for two new loaded hot dog options instead.

The first is the Colombian style hot dog topped with salsa verde, mayonnaise, ketchup, pineapple sauce, and crushed chips. And the second is h just a plant-based version of that. Truly, our DFB reporters so far have deemed this switch up to be a success, claiming that the salsa verde is bright and the mayo ketchup combo is creamy. The pineapple sauce is slightly sweet, but not overly so, and the crushed potato chips on top give everything a nice added crunch and savory overlay. And then you can wash your hot dog down with a new Pog drink from Terra Treats.

This new version of the passion fruit orange guava juice is made with an additional limeade and chili lime seasoning around the rim. It's refreshing and tart, a little bit spicy and sweet, but not in a candy-like way, more in a fresh fruit sort of way. And for the grown-ups of your group, there's also the boozy version of this one that's spiked with tequila that you might want to try if you're over 21. Okay, I don't want to talk about it, but I need to talk about it. I was so excited when I heard that Animal Kingdom would be saving my Buffalo chicken chips from extinction after Triloby Bites closed in Dinoand, USA.

Now they are over at Eight Spoon Cafe in Discovery Island, which means I can still get a bite of crunchy, tangy, blue cheesy nacho goodness anytime I want to. But the Buffalo chicken chips have changed, my friends. And now instead of all those glorious toppings being loaded up onto housemade seasoned chips, they're loaded up onto kind of basic Lays chips, which is a bummer. But don't get me wrong, they taste great. Same tender chicken, same blue cheese drizzle, same blend of pickled veggies, but the Lays chips are a major downgrade.

So, I'm kind of hoping that that was just like, you know, this is what we're doing in the first week of the change because we don't have the other chips yet and maybe the other chips are going to come in soon. So, we're going to keep an eye on them. Don't worry. Now, let's stick around the Eight Spoon menu a little bit longer and check out the latest loaded mac and cheese bowls here because this I cannot fault them on. The baked mac and cheese with pulled pork isn't new to 8, but the baked macaroni and cheese with buffalo chicken was originally introduced to the Smiling Crocodile menu this past summer before transferring over to Eight Spoon Cafe, making for a rather interesting game of hot potato or hot mac and cheese, however you want to call it.

The baked mac and cheese with buffalo chicken comes topped with buffalo chicken obby and tangy Italian dressing. The Italian dressing is really what tames the slightly spicy buffalo sauce, making it a very bright tasting mac and cheese, which we love. That being said, if you're looking for just your basic mac and cheese option to satisfy your group's picky eaters, it's not listed on the menu right now, y'all. But you can still request it as a secret snack option, and it will cost you less money. Yes, again, that's why you watch us because we ask these important questions.

Number five on our snack change list, seasonal desserts on a stick. I was super hyped when the key lime pie on a stick showed up at Flame Tree Barbecue this summer, but I had no idea this was going to turn out to be another one of Animal Kingdom's seasonal treats. As soon as the fall season hits, Flame Tree benched its key lime pop and replaced it with a pumpkin cheesecake pop. And we would have been more mad about it had the pumpkin cheesecake pop disappointed us, but it did not. It was divine with lots of warming spice flavor like cinnamon and nutmeg.

So, I guess we'll eagerly await what happens when a new pop treat pops up on the menu here next. And number six, the cold brews. So, Disney's been all about the cold brew scene lately. And Satuli Canteen over in Pandora has been in on the coffee trend, too. Along with cold brew flights that you can pick up here all day long, you can also try the brand new full-sized ube cold brew featuring Joffrey's cold brew coffee with ube sweet cream, butterfly pee tea, whipped topping, and freeze-dried raspberries.

There are still so many classic Animal Kingdom snacks that haven't budged and are still ready for you to pick up during your next visit as well. Some of our favorites, which should go on your list, too, are the Pongo Lubia from Pangu Pongu in Pandora. I was just talking about this on a podcast the other day because I absolutely love it and I keep being reminded how much I love it every time I get it. The pineapple crisp sundae and various other Dolehip floats from Tamu Tamu Refreshments. The fries topped with pulled pork and cheese from Flame Tree Barbecue.

Those are my birthday fries since I order them every time I'm at Animal Kingdom on my birthday. Breakfast pastry and coffee items from Cusafiri Coffee Shop and Bakery in Africa. All the different animal themed confections over at Zuri Sweets Shop in Africa are still there. I love that they're there. You're not going to find those anywhere else in Disney World, by the way.

And of course, there's tons more. But if you're looking for the full list of best snack recommendations for Animal Kingdom or any of the Disney World parks really, then be sure to check out our free DFB best Disney World snacks list complete with handydandy snack maps to help you track them all down over on disneyfoodblog.com/bestnacks after this. So, I've been spending a lot of time scouring through our DFB guide to Walt Disney World dining lately, updating it alongside our DFB book team to make sure it's ready for you guys to grab from the DFB store whenever you're ready to get real serious about planning your Disney dining itinerary. And during all of that scouring around, I've spent some extra time in the Animal Kingdom chapter, because Animal Kingdom really does have some of the best places to eat on property that seriously compete with Epcot and Disney Springs's many internationally inspired cuisines, too. But just to prove my point, I'm going to be highlighting for you today all the Animal Kingdom restaurants that we've awarded as DFB top picks for the new year, meaning we marked them with a cute little blue DFB heart at the top of those guide book pages.

So, top pick number one, Tusker House. Animal Kingdom's Tusker House is one of the best kept secrets around when it comes to Disney food and character meals. The food at this all you Care to Enjoy buffet is super flavorful and interesting. And the characters, Donald, Mickey, Goofy, and Daisy are all dressed in their safari gear, which you're not going to see anywhere else. If you want a fun character meal in a unique setting with interesting Africaninspired food for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, this is definitely the place to be.

And a quick hot DFB tip for you. If you book a breakfast reservation before the park opens, you can get into the park and take quick pics around the Tree of Life without anyone else around. Top pick number two, Yakin Yeti Restaurant. This is a unique and beautifully themed dining location inside the Asia section of the park. Offering a flavorful fusion of Asian cuisine complete with special Disney touches, all in a superdetailed Nepalese style setting.

Yakin Yeti restaurant is run by Landre. You might have heard of them before if you're a frequent flyer over at the Rainforest Cafe since they own and operate those popular chain restaurants, too. But don't worry, Yag and Yeti scores much higher on the food quality rankings than Rainforest does, at least for us. Now, if you go to the Landre's website before your visit, you can join their loyalty program, which will give you discounts for their restaurants, plus gift cards on your birthday. There's a onetime membership fee for $25, but the signup reward is $25 and cancels it out.

You can also use your membership rewards over at T-Rex Cafe in Disney Springs, too, since it's also owned by Landre's and there's a bunch of other restaurants that you probably have in your hometown that are owned by Landre's as well. Top pick number three, Flame Tree Barbecue. This is a popular quick service spot that features barbecue classics and fun snacky items. Like I mentioned earlier, all seating is outdoors here, which isn't ideal when you're dining on heavy plates of barbecue, but the colorful pavilions provide shade and cover from the sun. Just be mindful of all the birds nearby, cuz they will sometimes try to swipe a fry or two, which is why you should not feed the wildlife in Disney World.

Not only is it not good for their tummies, but they start to get mighty brave and aggressive when they're essentially encouraged to take food off of people's plates. Top pick number four, Satuli Canteen. This is the main dining establishment for Pandora. Although, I'd honestly be more satisfied living off of multiple Panguia pineapple spring rolls from the nearby Pangu Pangu stand, too. But that's just me.

Satuli Canteen is a dining room that celebrates the culture and art of the Na'vi. The menu is inspired by Pandora's Bounty with an international influence on the customizable bowl options. This is also where you can find those famous cheeseburger pods, which kind of feels like Mickey De's take on the bow bun, along with unique drinks and desserts and breakfasty items, too. Haven't said this in a while, but the cheeseburger pods are actually an old family recipe from Joe Roie himself. And I know a lot of people don't realize that, but it's one of my favorite fun facts.

Topic number five, Yakin Yeti local food cafes. Nope, you're not seeing double. I know we just talked about Yak and Yeti, but this is its quick service counterpart. At local food cafes, you can dine on pan Asian counter service cuisine in an open air immersive dining environment. Now, what does that mean?

That means no AC, right? Everything's outside. That's what open air means around here. So, just be prepared if it's horrible weather, way too hot, way too cold, way too rainy, this one isn't a good choice. And a bonus is going to be Nomad Lounge.

While we do love the signature restaurant, Tiffens inside Discovery Island, we love its attached nomad lounge even more. Everything about this lounge is easy. It's easy on the eyes. It's easy on the soul. It's easy on the taste buds.

This is where you can pick up handcrafted cocktails as well as non-alcoholic specialty drinks and a selection of small plates that come straight from the signature restaurant's kitchen. Just keep in mind that this lounge can get packed, so the sooner you can add your name to the walkup wait list, the better. Now, there are a couple things you need to know about Animal Kingdom's rides as a whole, as well as about each ride individually. So, first, let's talk about what you need to know about all of these rides. Starting with, there's not many of them.

Even the rides that garner super long lines in Animal Kingdom aren't going to completely destroy your day because you should still be able to knock out everything before the park closes as long as technical difficulties don't arise and things aren't just literally closed. Following that, because of Animal Kingdom's lack of rides at the moment, Lightning Lanes don't tend to be as worth it for this park. Granted, if your kids just hate waiting in any sort of line, or you're visiting during an ultra busy time of year, like around the holidays or spring break, or you're only planning a half day for this park and you'll be using Lightning Lanes while also park hopping somewhere else, then yeah, multipass and/or single pass purchases might still be worth reading up on for this one, which you can do for free by downloading our DFB guide to maximizing lightning lanes at disneyfoodblog.com/multipass. That's again totally free. But just an average day in Animal Kingdom, you don't necessarily need Lightning Lanes if you want to conquer all the rides here.

Again, technical difficulties aside, you should be able to knock them all out just fine. And now that we've gotten those two Animal Kingdom truths out of the way, let's meet your Animal Kingdom ride lineup. Kilimanjaro Safaris over in Africa is an 18minute musto safari ride on the Harambe Wildlife Reserve which offers one of the best experiences in the park to see the animals. The Wildlife Express train has an entrance right next to Kilimanjaro Safaris. And while it's not a thrill ride, it is the only way you can reach Rafiki's Planet Watch while you're in the park.

Expedition Everest over in Asia is not only Animal Kingdom's one and only roller coaster that goes backwards, forwards, and takes some extreme drops, but it's also Animal Kingdom's only attraction to offer up a single rider line to help you potentially cut down on your weight time. Collie River Rapids, also over in Asia, is a family river raft ride. And yep, that's basically it. If you've ridden one of these style rides at a theme park before, then you know what this is like. Flight of Passage inside Pandora is Animal Kingdom's most popular attraction for now at least, giving you the chance to ride on the back of a banshee in a 4D flying theater-like experience.

A Na'vi River Journey. Also inside Pandora, is a slowgoing boat ride that takes you through the bioluminescent wildlife scene of Pandora before coming face to face with the Na'vi shaman herself. And then of course there's Dinosaur, which I'm only mentioning now because I'm never going to be able to mention it again, and that's sad. Dinosaur is an action-packed dark ride where you'll travel back in time to help Dr. Seeker find an iguanadon for, you know, science and stuff.

But unfortunately, there's a good chance that you're not going to make it if you're planning a trip for later on in 2026. Since again, Dinosaurs last day of operation is February 1st. Now, as if meeting real wildlife isn't already good enough, there are so many rare and exclusive characters for you to meet around Animal Kingdom. So, let's go meet them together. New to Animal Kingdom, Nick Wild and Judy Hops have a designated meet and greet area at their new Zootopia Better Zoo together attraction.

This meet and greet tends to rack up even longer lines than the attraction itself, so it's not a bad idea to get in line for this dynamic duo as early on in the day as you can. All meet and greet schedules can be found on your My Disney Experience app the day of your visit. Lots of other characters tend to hang around the Discovery Island area, like Moana in Character Landing right across from Isisle of Java, Russell and Doug on the Discovery Island Trails on the west side of the Tree of Life, and Pocahontas also on the Discovery Island Trails, often near the riverbank. Kevin from Pixar's Up doesn't like to stay in one place for too terribly long. So, if you spot a towering rainbow bird making her rounds up and around the Discovery Island paths, that's Kevin.

little less obvious and purposefully more hidden. Divine is a humanoid forest creature that lurks peacefully around Discovery Island, but mainly towards the front entrance of the park. She's not out and about all the time, but again, you can typically track her down via the My Disney Experience app. And if you hop on board the Wildlife Express train to pay a visit to Rafiki's Planet Watch, guess who you're going to find there? Yep, the wise old baboon himself.

Sometimes Timone will join him in the meet and greet sphere, too. Though admittedly, it is weird to see Timone without Pumba. Guess he and Simba are out eating grubs surviving someplace else. Now, Animal Kingdom has two Broadway style shows, Finding Nemo, The Big Blue and Beyond on the outskirts of Asia and Festival of the Lion King in Africa. Both of these shows have a lot of similarities between them.

They both use larger than-l life puppets. They both feature live singing and stunts. They both take around half an hour to see. They both have stacked bleacher seats, so you don't have to stress over visibility being limited, even if you swoop into the theater for a seat at the last second, and they both play at multiple times throughout the day, so you'll have plenty of chances to swing by and watch one of the performances. But if you can only choose one to watch before hopping on over to another park for the day, which one's going to be the better choice for you?

If your group enjoys more of a fully fleshed out story, then Finding Nemo is probably the better option. Finding Nemo, the big blue and beyond follows the fish who managed to escape the tank of Dr. P. Sherman's office. So, Gil and Bloat and Pearl and the rest of the wanahakalugi tribe.

The tank gang finds themselves in the marine life institute featured in Pixar's sequel film Finding Dory. But while they're there, they retell the story from the first film where Marlin and Dory set out on a quest to find Nemo. It's fun. It's endearing. It's a much more condensed version of the dad and son story that we all know and love, just presented in a fresh way.

But if your group likes more audience participation, you might want to choose Festival of the Lion King instead. They're not going to make you an unofficial Tumble Monkey or anything, but the show follows less of a story structure and focuses more on song and dance and acrobatics and audience participation. The theater is in the round and each area of Bleachers represents one animal, warthog, lion, elephant, and giraffe. The sections may seem insignificant and they're really not going to change your experience a whole lot, but you and your entire section will have to demonstrate what noise your assigned animal makes. Just a silly, light-hearted game.

Nothing too embarrassing. And toward the end of the show, select kiddos will be chosen from the bleacher seats to come and participate in a grand musical dance number. It's a lot of fun and a real magical moment when it happens to your kid. And while not every kid will be chosen for this moment, you might be able to improve your chances of getting chosen by sitting closer to the front of the stage. Though, your kid might also have a better view of the whole performance if you sit farther back.

So, let's address the elephant/zbra giraffe banshee in the room. In its current state, Animal Kingdom feels like a half-day park for people. And that can feel kind of crummy when you're still paying full ticket prices for a half-day park. Sure, you can always tack on a park hopper to your general admission ticket, but that's going to be an extra $65 per person per day, and that's a really pricey investment if you only really want to use it on your Animal Kingdom day, but not on the rest of your park days. So, is it actually possible to spend a full day in Animal Kingdom right now without wrapping things up by 2 to 3:00 p.m.?

If your sole reason for going to the parks is rides, rides, and more rides, then no, you won't really have a full day here, unless you're just riding the same rides over and over again. But if you're willing to expand beyond the ride scene and give the other underrated parts of Animal Kingdom a chance, I think you'd be shocked by how much you can pack into one visit. Let me show you some of the best ways to see all the different animals around this park is exploring the animal trails like Maharaja Jungle Track in Asia, Gorilla Falls Exploration Trail in Africa, and the Discovery Island Trails around the Tree of Life. Not only will these paths give you an easygoing way to see lots of different animal friends in their nice little houses, but you can also find cast member animal experts along these paths who can give you more information about the animals who live there. Now, if you take the Wildlife Express train over to Rafiki's Planet Watch, you're going to unlock a whole area of more Animal Kingdom experiences.

While Rafiki's doesn't have any A-list or rides, it does have a petting zoo, a sketch class, and other edutainment activities that could easily fill a good hour of your afternoon. And aside from the main stage shows of the park, Animal Kingdom also has other live performance opportunities for you to check out, too. In Discovery Island, you can watch macaw soar around the tree of life during winged encounters or kingdom takes flight. Or if it's available during your visit, you might want to join Discovery Island street parties with music, dancing, and energy of the Caribbean influenced Viva Gaya street band. In Africa, you can enjoy the music of Kora Tinga Tinga as you stroll through the village and do a little window browsing past the shops and open markets while you're at it.

Or you can stop to watch performances like the high energy Tamt Tam drummers of Harambe and or the Harambe Village Acrobats. In Asia, Beats and Strings is a duo that plays Hindustani Raa music with a modern twist on traditional instruments, the Tabla and the Sitar. And Feathered Friends in Flight, not to be confused with Winged Encounters, is another free-flying bird focused show, but inside the Anander Theater instead, with more of a focus on what goes into the care and keeping of these majestic creatures. If you got a younger member of your group, they might want to go searching for wilderness explorer badges. Think of this like being in a Girl Scouts/boy Scouts program inside Disney World.

You grab a handbook, you complete the activities on each page, and you earn sticker badges as you go. While it's mostly for kids cuz the activities throughout the handbook are definitely aimed for a younger age range, adults are more than welcome to participate, too, since you will learn a lot of cool animal facts during your journey. But just as a heads up, this one's probably going to be way more fun for the kids in the group. And if you're coming around a time of year when the sun sets before the park closes, you'll be able to see the Tree of Life Awakenings projections, which will bring the icon of the park to life throughout the remainder of the evening with vibrant colors and movement and music. It is really gorgeous.

Animal Kingdom might start looking very different in 2026, but what's never going to change is the DFB team being here to help you navigate all your future Disney World vacations. So stay tuned for more updates to come. Check out our other Animal Kingdom videos when you get the chance, like our 50 amazing things you never knew were in Animal Kingdom. And don't forget to download that free Disney World 12-month calendar right now over at disneyfoodblog.com/wdwcal. Thanks for listening everyone and thanks for watching.

As always, this is AJ for Disney Food Blog and we'll see you real soon.
