# The ULTIMATE Guide to EPCOT in 2026

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H4dizyKPEo4
Channel: DFBGuide
Duration: 39:59
Published: 2025-11-13
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:28:33.071803+00:00

## Transcript

Epcot is going to be the Disney World park to see in 2026, and today's ultimate guide is going to show you why, while also preparing you for theme park success. Hey everybody, it's AJ for Disney Food Blog. Now, I'm probably one of the world's biggest Epcot fans. I love the food and the culture and the edutainment, and I really love that every time I visit, I get to experience something new. So, today's ultimate guide is going to help you fall in love with this park just as much as I have, if that's possible, while also giving you the most recent updates and recommendations for visiting this internationally inspired park in 2026.

I'm super excited for you. Let's go. Yes, you heard it here. Epcot is going to be the best Disney World park to prioritize in 2026. And here's why.

One, no major construction. Magic Kingdom, Animal Kingdom, Hollywood Studios all have significant areas that are going to be Bulldozer and Scrim Central there for a while as new lands are created for each of these parks. But when it comes to Epcot, she's already had her time of significant construction updates, so it's good to go now and looking mighty dapper. Now, Disney did announce just recently, I know there's got to be something, right? That Frozen Ever After over in Norway will be receiving some major changes potentially starting in early 2026 to update all the animatronics inside the ride from their screen projected faces, creepy, to fully functional animatronic faces, like you can see on the Frozen Ever After ride in Hong Kong.

So, there might be some anticipated closures for this ride as that big change takes place, but we'll keep you updated on the status of all that once we learn more. Okay, second reason Epcot is going to rock your socks off this year. Sorry, that was silly. But anyway, new things to check out. If it's been a minute since your last visit to Epcot, or if you've never been to Epcot before, aren't you in for a treat?

Here are the significant changes that have hit this park just within the past year or that are going to hit this park in the near future. First up, the latest iteration of Test Track opened on July 22nd, 2025. So now the ride has a new entrance sign, new queue exhibits, new show scenes, but the same 65 mph loop during the grand finale. GO82, that's the new adults only spaceship earth themed lounge. It opened just before Test Track did on June 4th, 2025.

This is like a modern-day speak easy in the base of one of the greatest dark rides of all time, except with lots of light and airy atmosphere. You got your unique drinks, you've got global bites, you got great sweeping views across the World Celebration Gardens. All you need now is an advanced dining reservation, which is required to experience this 21 and over location most of the time. If you were wanting to ride Remy's Ratatouille Adventure, but were worried about the 3D screens triggering your motion sickness, I got great news for you. Remy's Ratatouille Adventure is going to be closing on November 10th, 2025 to reopen on the 13th with an allnew 2D experience.

So, the 3D glasses are hitting the high road. We've already seen Disney come out with some really impressive 2D technology in recent years that still makes you feel like you're being yanked into the action regardless. Just take a look at Mickey and Minnie's Runaway Railway in Hollywood Studios, right? So, I think overall this is going to be a good move on the Imagineers's part that'll help more people be able to ride this attraction without the extra motion sickness, stress, and clearer graphics, too. And finally, next year, big things are happening over at Saurin inside the Land Pavilion.

In summer 2026, Saurin will be getting a brand new Airborne adventure that'll take you across the United States, highlighting some of the country's natural beauty and iconic cityscapes in Saurin across America. This limited time itinerary will be around to celebrate the country's 250th birthday, and I'm intrigued to see what Disney chooses for us to fly over this time. Crossing my fingers for bies. Three, this is your chance to do some world travel. Much like any Epcot visit, whether it be this year, next year, or in years to come, this is one of the rare theme parks that gives you the chance to sample not just one, not two, but 11 different countries thanks to the authentic cultural pavilions that make up the backside of this park.

So, if you are wanting to do some world travel this year, but you don't have enough vacation time, or your budget just won't cover all those flights, Epcot can make your Vagabond dreams come true in just a single day. Epcot might not have as many rides as Magic Kingdom has, but the rides that are offered here will take you into space and under the sea and on racetracks and around the world. So, they are very, very cool. And what I want to do is just blah blah blah about the Epcot rides in depth over the course of your entire day. Maybe we can put on the tea kettle or something.

But instead, I'm gonna give you the one-s sentence truths about every Epcot ride so that we can keep this video moving and still keep you well informed about Epcot's impressive ride scene. Ready? Okay, let's do this. Spaceship Earth in World Celebration. This is one of my favorite dark rides of all time, where you get to learn about the evolution of communication, which is so much more fun than it sounds.

You can thank the Phoenetians and determine the course of your future all in a single ride through. Journey into imagination with Figment, also World Celebration. Another dark ride, but instead of Phoenicians, you follow Figment, the purple dragon, and Dr. Nigel Channing through a series of trippy labs that conclude with Channing's face plastered on the moon in a pure nightmare fuel fashion. Fun ride, okay to ride once, never really a line.

Mission space over in World Discovery. This is a flight simulator where you can choose the green mission which is a little bit more tame or the orange mission which is kind of vomitinducing if you can't handle intense spinning. Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind and World Discovery pretty much everyone's favorite Disney World coaster at the moment due to its backwards launch and smooth spinning vehicles and killer randomized8s soundtrack. Please tell me in the comments what your favorite Guardian song is. You guys know that my favorite is Tears for Fears, but I'm perfectly okay if you decide that you like September or Iran.

Those are fine. The rest we're going to have words about probably. Next up is Test Track in World Discovery. Again, this one's recently been updated, but still features the same sharp turns and slammed brakes and thrilling speed run and almost getting hit by a truck. Grand Fiesta Tour starring the three Cabieros over in the Mexico Pavilion and World Showcase.

This is an easygoing boat ride through the pavilion pyramid featuring Donald Panchito and Joseé Karaoka. Usually not too long a line for this one unless it's like Christmas Day. Frozen Ever After in the Norway Pavilion, one of the most popular rides in Epcot. It's another animatronic le dark ride for all ages that shows what happened after Elsa's Little Heart freezing escapades. Remy's Ratatouille Adventure in the France Pavilion.

Another very popular ride. Screen-based trackless dark ride where you're going to shrink down to the size of a rodent to see how traumatizing it is to be a rat chased around a five-star restaurant kitchen. The seas with Nemo and friends in World Nature. Now Nemo can't stop running away, so this slowmoving dark ride requires you to go find him again. This one usually doesn't have too long a line.

Big winner with little kids. Living with the Land World Nature. the greatest boat ride ever made because it takes you through Epcot's green houses and floats you past these little cozy show scenes that'll make you appreciate nature and gardening even more than you did before the ride. This one usually doesn't have very long a line, but I don't know why. This is the people mover of Epcot and Saurin over in World Nature.

This is a flying theater ride that'll take you around the world unless you visit next summer during the temporary Saurin across America overlay. Another one that usually has a pretty decent line, maybe 20 to 45 minutes on average. Skipping the bulk of Disney's long ride wait times. Yeah, I will take that option. But paying to do it, that's what makes us pause here in Epcot and consider if Lightning Lane purchases are really going to be worth it or not.

There's a lot to consider when it comes to Lightning Lanes as a whole, but we got a free full guide on that if you want us to send it your way. Just scan the QR code on the screen or click on the link for Disneyfoodblog.com/multipass after this. For now though, here are the main pros and cons when it comes to deciding if Lightning Lanes and Epcot are really going to be worth saving for or not. Cuz remember, Epcot doesn't have that many rides. And those rides don't get super super super duper long lines along the likes of Flight of Passage or, you know, like Rise of the Resistance.

Anyway, when could Lightning Lanes be worth it in Epcot? Possibly if you've only got one day to spend here. Epcot's a pretty busy park, and while rides aren't necessarily the main focus of this place, Lightning Lanes can help make sure you get on the ones you want to get on quickly, while still seeing everything else you want to see here. You can pre-select up to three multipass Lightning lanes before your visit, but from those Lightning Lane choices, you'll only be able to pre-select one ride from the tier one category. Tier one options include Frozen Ever After, Remy's Ratatuli Adventure, and Test Track.

Now, once you use a Lightning Lane during your park day, you'll be able to choose another immediately after that fact. And you can choose from any of the tiers. So, there's still the chance that you'll be able to pick up another one of these tier one options on the day of your visit, subject to availability, since tiers are only a thing when you're pre-selecting Lightning Lane. But the tier one option you pre-select should be the one you want to prioritize above all the others since that'll be your guaranteed lightning lane option. Now the next time a lightning lane is going to be worth it and this is my personal use of a lightning lane on a regular basis is the single pass option.

Right? There's one popular Epcot ride you're not going to find in the multi-pass lineup and that's Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind. Cosmic Rewind is so popular that it actually has its own allocart lightning lane called a single pass which you can purchase per person per ride through. Yep, this is a pricey endeavor for just one ride since single passes for Cosmic Rewind can cost $14 to $18 per person, but time is money in Disney World. And if you can potentially save yourself a 75 to 90 minute wait by using the single pass option, you can spend more time accomplishing a lot of other things around the park.

And you don't have to worry about purchasing multi pass in order to purchase a cosmic rewind single pass. You can choose one or the other or both or neither. Totally your call. So pay for what you think will be the most useful for you. By the way, you don't have to get lightning lanes at all.

You can just stand in the lines. That's totally available as well. Now, when are they not going to be useful to buy? Maybe you're going to stick to other line skipping strategies instead. Lightning lanes aren't the only way to skip over the bulk of ride lines.

You can always splurge in one of the after hours events. Going to talk about those in just a little bit. Or you could use the resources already laid out for you that won't cost anything extra, like early theme park entry, which allows Disney hotel guests to enter the parks 30 minutes before everyone else. Or extended evening hours, which allows Disney Deluxe Hotel guests only to stay in the park on select evenings up to 2 hours after everyone else has to leave. Oh, and did I mention that two out of the three multipass rides that are part of tier 1 listings actually have single rider options?

The single rider lines at Remy's Ratatouille Adventure and Test Track could both help you cut down on your weight time significantly, just as long as you're cool with splitting up your group in order to make it happen. Yep. So, the whole point of single rider lines, by the way, is to fill in the empty spots. And so, your group might be split up to fill in where there are seats available left by other groups. And it may not make sense to get lightning lanes if you just don't need them.

Some Epcot rides can project lengthy wait times by the afternoon. But even if you don't use early theme park entry or extended evening hours, you might still be able to knock those out just fine by entering the park right when it opens or hitting up the cues around the time that Epcot's nighttime show Luminous is getting ready to dazzle the place. Not to mention, there are many Epcot rides that typically don't have long waits to worry about anyway. Grand Fiesta Tour starring the three caviaros, Journey into Imagination with Figment, Living with the Land, and several others, too, tend to keep weights below 15 minutes on an average crowd level day. So, even without a Lightning Lane, you're more than likely to be able to hit up these rides just fine regardless.

Unless, that is, you're visiting around a peak travel season, like close to Christmas and New Year's, then Lightning Lanes might still be the way to go if rides are truly a priority for your group. All right, Epcotians, here are some important dates to keep in mind for 2026. Epcot's already penciling in important stuff, which means we're busy doing the same. No, really. We've got a free 12 month Disney World calendar, where we jot down all the most important things coming down the line across the parks, from holidays to closures to potential weather forecasts and more.

Just scan the QR code on the screen now or click on the link in the description for Disneyfoodblog.com/wdwcal if you want us to send that calendar your way that we are busily scribbling in to make sure we've got all the latest and greatest that you need to remember. But for now, let's look at how certain dates are going to specifically impact the Epcot scene next year. So, first the Epcot festival dates. While we don't know the exact dates for all of the Epcot festivals coming up next year, we can give you an idea of when they're going to be scheduled based on previous years. Right now, warning, you're going to want to be cautious about opening Epcot dates since the festivals can get busy on opening day and opening weekend.

And while Epcot festivals really add to the overall theme park experience here, thanks to the food booths and entertainment and limited time activities, I will admit that the times between Epcot festivals clear some of the park crowds. So, if you care less about fests and more about light crowds, you might want to keep up with festival dates just so you can plan around them instead. At the time of this video's release, the only festival dates we know for sure are the ones for Festival of the Arts, which happen on January 16th to February 23rd, 2026. For the other three festivals, dates are still TBA, but in 2025, Apot Flower and Garden Festival ran from March 5th to June 2nd. So, it's going to be that March June time frame.

Epcot Food and Wine ran from August 28th to November 22nd and Epcot Festival of the Holidays ran from November 28th to December 30th. Now, let's talk Run Disney races. If you're not already familiar with Run Disney, these are the big races where thousands of people come to run five and 10ks and half marathons and marathons across Disney World property. While the races usually finish before the parks open, traffic patterns can change due to road closures and there will be significantly more people flooding into all the parks than usual. Here's what the Run Disney race schedule looks like for 2026.

Another thing to keep in mind about the Run Disney races is that more people coming to the parks means more hotel rooms being booked up faster, especially since the race dates are posted about 9 months in advance of the races. So, if you're planning to visit around this time, make sure you start booking your hotel rooms as soon as you can. I once had a horrible situation where I had a flight canceled and I needed to stay an extra day in Disney World. Not a horrible situation, but what was horrible is that it was a race weekend and there were like no hotel rooms available. It ended up being really great because the only hotel room that the Contemporary had available was like a mega suite and they put me in it for the one night which was awesome.

But yeah, that was wild. I couldn't believe that there was just nothing available. And after hours events. So after hours are coming back to Epcot in 2026. After hours is a separately ticketed event where you can enjoy park attractions for 3 hours without a lot of lines after the parks closed for everyone else.

It is literally so empty in there that it's almost creepy. And guess what? Ice cream, novelties, popcorn, and select drinks are included, too. So hit up those snack carts like your life depends on it. After hours will be returning on select nights from January 22nd, 2026 to September 24th, 2026.

The event begins at 9:30 p.m. and lasts for 3 hours ending at 12:30 a.m. But guests with tickets for the event can enter the park as early as 7:00 p.m. even without general admission. That way, you can still watch the luminous fireworks.

Okay, I am all for keeping with the times and keeping things hip and groovy and trendy. I know I can barely say that with a straight face, too. But seriously, if you want to eat at the Epcot restaurants that are new and popular and/or my personal favorites, then these are the ones you'll want to keep on your radar in 2026, the new ones. Okay, we'll start with those. GO82.

Now, much like I mentioned at the start of this video, GO82 gives you time to relax in a sleek setting and soak in the moment amongst fellow Disney adults and travelers. Because this lounge isn't even a year old yet, reservations for it get snatched up fast. So, make sure to secure those as soon as you can, 60 days before your visit. Now, as far as Epcot's other restaurants are concerned, most of them aren't new new, but if you haven't been to Epcot in a while, the restaurants that have opened in this park over the past 5 years, include Space 220 and the Space 220 lounge in World Discovery, table service opening date 2021. The Creper Perry in the France Pavilion, table service, opening date 2021.

Truthfully though, we tend to prioritize this restaurant's to-go window, crepes tea, a whole lot more. Connections Eery and Cafe in World Celebration. This opened in 2022 and it's a fast food restaurant. And the ery section is where you'll find the entre and the cafe section sells the Starbucks branded drinks and baked goods. And Shiki Sai Sushi isakaya in the Japan pavilion.

That's table service as well. Opening date was 2023. So that's the new. Let's talk about the popular. We're going to start off this popular point by talking about character dining, which was a big old popular restaurant subject for lots of Disney guests, especially for families.

Garden Grill in the Land Pavilion and Acres Royal Banquet Hall in the Norway Pavilion are Epcot's two character dining experiences. You'll meet Farmer Mickey, Pluto, Chip, and Dale during your visit to Garden Grill as the circular dining room also slowly rotates while you chow down. That's an important bit of info I needed to squeeze in there for you. And you'll meet a variety of Disney princesses during your aceruse meal, which could include Snow White, Jasmine, Belle, Tiana, Princess Aurora, Cinderella, and Ariel. Princesses do switch out regularly, though.

Both of these restaurants also feature family style dining, which is like a reverse buffet. So, instead of you going up to a buffet line and piling up your plate with whatever tickles your fancy, the endless eats will be brought to your table to split amongst your group. At Garden Grill, you and your fam will be able to dine on a harvest spread of roasted meats and fresh veggies and Thanksgiving style sides like mashed potatoes and mac and cheese. And while Acers Royal Banquet Hall will serve up skillets of Norwegian specialty items like Norwegian meatballs and seared salmon and chicken with apples, etc., the best meal for picky eaters here is going to be breakfast cuz you're going to have a lot more regularly recognizable stuff there. Now, when it comes to quick and affordable dining, the DFB team and I aren't the only ones who love Leal Bulerie petisserie in the France pavilion.

This is a little graband-go bakery where you and your fam can try all sorts of French inspired pastries and goodies like kiche and eclairs and giant croissants and lobster soup, lobster biscuit, a bread bowl, which I don't know if that's actually French inspired, but it's pretty good. But note that this place is known to rack up some very long lines since it does not have mobile order availability. But don't stress, the lines tend to move quickly. No need to wish for a lightning lane. That being said, for potentially shorter lay lines, try hitting this little bakery up after opening hours, like maybe around 10:30 to avoid the morning rush, or come back around 2:00 to 4:00 p.m.

to hit it up during off dining times. Now, you know what other Epcot baker is getting a whole lot of love lately? Kringla Bakery Cafe in the Norway pavilion. A part of its resurgence in popularity is thanks to the brand new cold brew coffee that just popped up on the menu here, the cold crumb, which is a drink inspired by one of the most popular pastries in their display case, the school bread. The cold crumb is made with coconut flavored Joffrey's cold brew coffee, vanilla custard cold foam, and coconut fancy.

So, pair that bad boy with a school bread pastry and you'll be in coconut custard heaven. Then again, you can always stick with those classic Cringa Bakery coffee drinks and grab the Kristoff Cafe instead. made with frozen coffee, coffee chocolate sauce, and garnished with coffee chocolate crunch. There's also a boozy version of this drink if you're interested called the frozen Viking coffee, which adds Bailey's Irish Cream and Kamora coffee leour to the mix. Another one of my favorites right now at Kringa, though, is that incredible cinnamon roll with orange icing.

That thing is wild. Okay, Kabuki Cafe right outside the Japan pavilion. This has been amping up its shave ice game lately. Not only can you get authentic kaki gori shave ice here with syrup imported from Japan, but you can also load your shave ice up with additional toppings like sweet milk and coconut cream, pineapple cream, strawberry cream, mandarin and orange. And you can superersize your kaki, too.

Plus, for all you adults out there, Kabuki Cafe also serves boozy sake slushy options with flavors like blood orange and coconut pineapple, blackberry and violet. Okay, it's time for my favorite category. These are the AJ Wolf must eats of Epcot. Starting with what could possibly be my favorite Disney World restaurant, Lelier Steakhouse in the Canada Pavilion. Steaks and cheesy beer soup and poutine.

It all speaks to my heart. And while this is a signature restaurant, it also features an allocart menu. So you have the freedom to pay for the items you actually want instead of being forced to pay for an appetizer entree and dessert whether you want three courses or not. Now I do love the poutine in Lasalier. It's one of my very very favorites in the world.

But if you're looking for a cheaper option for poutine, go to Refreshment Port. This is only steps away from the Canada Pavilion, and it also tends to rotate out its poutine options to go along with the most recent Epcot festival. But even if you're here during non-festestival times, you should at least be able to order the classic gravy and cheese curd poutine combo all year round. Okay, if you ask me, where I prefer to drink and chat in Epcot, I will say the GO82 is lovely and the Space 220 lounge is fun. But Laava del Tequila inside the Mexico pavilion is my go-to every single time.

Not only do you not have to worry about making any advanced dining reservations for this place cuz it's walk up availability only, but the handcrafted margaritas here are incredible. The service is 10 out of 10. And I absolutely adore the queso here. Lava's walk up weight list can get pretty lengthy. So if you don't have time to wait around for a table, you can still go to the graband go and pick up a marg right from the bar instead.

And I love a good sweet snack, as you know, like love love, especially if said sweet snack can find the balance between not having enough sugar and putting me in a sugar induced coma, which is why I appreciate LA to send a glass over in the France Pavilion. This place switches up its ice cream options regularly, but you'll always be able to find 16 different flavors on offer, which you can also combine with other ice cream concoctions like martinis and cappuccinos and bio press sandwiches. And it's not truly an Epcot trip for me if I don't mobile order a bunch of stuff over at Caramel Cusha in the Germany Pavilion at least once. From butter bars to cupcakes to thickle caramel cookie sandwiches, you're going to find so many freshlymade treats packing out the display cases here. Think you can walk past this place without stopping to pick something up?

Good luck with that, cuz the smells wafting from this bakery will be enough to yank you inside. I know. I can't help it. I have an unrequited love for Regal Eagle Smokehouse inside the American Adventure Pavilion. And you know, now that soaring around America is going to be a thing next year, what better way to celebrate the new version than by grabbing an entree at this fast casual restaurant that highlights the regions of America that specialize in barbecue.

It's basically a food ride. That's what I like to say about Regal Eagle. I don't know. I've never said that before, but I think we should start saying it. Anyway, you can also try any of the four house recipe sauces to go along with your smoked meats.

You know, I love a dipping sauce. So, no matter if you prefer a tomato base or a mustard base or a vinegar base or a dry rub, you're going to be able to find your preferred sauce at the selfservice sauce station, as well as sample whatever others you might want to taste test, you know, for science. Now, we talked about the Epcot festivals briefly earlier in our little calendar section, but they didn't get their due. This is really a huge deal for Epcot. So, let's explore what you can expect to find during these limited time park events.

Because Epcot festivals can get so in-depth and really change the way you approach your entire visit, we've created full festival guides that we regularly update over at dfbstore.com every time a new festival comes around. We've even got festival guide book bundles that'll give you the latest festival guide plus our DFB guide to Walt Disney World dining at a super discounted price, which you can apply an even bigger discount to by typing in code YouTube before you check out cuz that's an exclusive discount for you guys. But for now, let's go over the key items you're going to find at every Epcot festival. And then you can check out the details like specific food items, performance artists, recommendations, festival specific extras, and more when you pick up one of those festival guides in your own time. Deal?

Deal. Starting, of course, with the food booths. Sometimes they're brand new, sometimes they're a returning favorite, and sometimes, well, food booths disappear completely and make us wish we'd appreciated them more when we had them. But no matter what the case may be for the food booths at the Epcot festival you'll be attending, you can easily build an entire meal around just snacking around Epcot's various booths alone. Most festival foods can be found around the booth sprinkled throughout the World Showcase Pavilion, but you'll also get a few straggler festival food options across some of the other Epcot lands as well, like the festival favorites over in World Celebration, or the booths that might pop up near Test Track, like we've seen for the Fry Basket that likes to show up for food and wine, or even on the menus for permanent quick service spots like Sunshine Seasons in the Land Pavilion and Connections Eery in World Showcase.

Everybody wants to get in on the festival action and those snack strategies. Along with the food booths, Epcot's free passport tasting booklets will include some sort of food crawl challenge for you to take on if you so desire. And to participate, you'll buy any of the five featured dishes in the crawl. And then once you've collected the five corresponding stamps, you'll get a special prize, usually another snack. Some of these crawls can be quite hefty, though, especially the holiday cookie stroll during Festival of the Holidays, which will have you eating so many cookies, you'll be bouncing off Spaceship Earth itself from the Sugar High.

But good news, you don't have to take on these food crawls alone to still be eligible for the prize. Have a bunch of people in your group order one or two of these items so you can complete the tasks and reap the benefits. If you have more than one day that you'll be spending at Epcot, you can also break up your snack crawls between those days to accomplish them at your own speed. There's no time limit to these crawls. Just accomplish them before the festival ends in order to claim your victory item.

With every Epcot festival, you're going to be able to check out that festival's concert series, which brings live performances to the park, showcasing different artists and groups depending on when you visit. This could mean local talent, Broadway stars, or even famous bands like the Frey, We Smashmouth, you name it. While some of those performances might not have too much demand, so you'll be able to walk up and find a seat in the America Gardens Outdoor Theater right before showtime, other performances have a much greater demand and could book up solid before you find a seat. In fact, the most popular concert series, Festival of the Holidays Candlelight Processional, will start forming lines for their shows a couple of hours before the performance. So, if you're wanting to help guarantee your spot in the outdoor theater without all the extra waiting headache, Epcot's concert series dining packages can be really great.

These concert dining packages entitle guests to breakfast, lunch, or dinner at select Epcot restaurants and include same day reserve seating at the concert series available on the day of your visit. Warning though, some packages tend to sell out right when they go live. So, you're going to want to stay in the know about when they're going to be available to purchase online or on the My Disney Experience app. Don't worry, we're going to make sure to keep you updated. We have all of those dates that go out in our newsletter, which is free, by the way, and you can sign up for it in the description below.

Every festival has a familyfriendly scavenger hunt that you can purchase at one of the main Epcot gift shops, too, to add a little extra fun into your festival day. Each game is going to send you on a hunt to go find certain characters hiding out around the different pavilions. And once you find them all and complete your game board, you'll be able to redeem it for a cute prize, like a mini cornhole game or a cute Disney themed bowl or something like that. Afraid you won't get the entire game done by the end of your Epcot day? Don't sweat it.

You already paid for it, so you can always pick up your prize right when you buy the game board instead. Now, if you want to take home some festival souvenirs, each fest has very specific merch items like spirit jerseys and ears and pins and bags and you name it. You'll only be able to pick them up during that specific festival's time frame, unless of course you find overstock of these fest items at one of the Disney stores or character warehouses in the future, but that's a whole different topic for another day. Along with fest merch, be on the lookout for other specialty items that pop up during these times, too, like custom artwork signed in person during Festival of the Arts or different plant or garden accessories found during Flower and Garden. Now, speaking of shopping, what about shopping when it's not festival time?

Well, all year round, Epcot is a great shopping destination. The World Showcase is a treasure trove of unique souvenirs and trinkets that you're not going to find at any other Disney World gift shop and maybe not even any other shop in the United States. So, let's wrap our way around the pavilions and show our top three places you can find some of the most unique, interesting, one-of-a-kind cultural souvenirs to display proudly in your home and brag on whenever someone asks you about it. Over in the Mexico pavilion, you've got Plaza de los Amigos. And this offers souvenirs specific to Mexico in a setting that makes it look like you're exploring a night market, no matter what time of day you visit.

This includes items like Mexico mini ears and Mexico pavilion t-shirts and glasses and turvis tumblers. You name it. But you'll also find non-D Disney branded merchandise too, like the beautiful and brightly painted Dia de los Muertos ceramic pieces, blankets, sombrero, mini piñatas, Mexican chocolate bars, or my personal favorite, the Alibier, animal carvings made right there in the shop daily. Now, if you were to ask the DFB team or me what their favorite store on Disney World property is, the majority of them are going to sing the praises of Mitsu Koshi over in Epcot's Japan Pavilion. This place sells a lot of anime, manga, and other kawaii pop culture items.

So, if you're a big fan of characters from Pokemon or Kingdom Hearts or Hello Kitty, you need to run here ASAP. Mitsukoshi also sells authentic Japanese merchandise like kimonos, zen gardens, Buddha boards, and tons of fun snacks. And the snacks take up the entire back room of this shop if you need your pocky fix. Now, after you're finished shopping, you can slip on in to the Bjutsu Khan Gallery, which is right next door to Mitsukoshi. And this is where you can explore Kauaii culture and how it's interwoven with Japanese fashion and home decor.

Oh, and if you're looking for even more of the authentic Japanese shopping experience, recently Disney added a few gashapon machines right outside the store, too. To pay for your gasha, use the touchscreen device sandwiched in the middle of all the machines to get started. By the way, Mitsuoshi is an actual brand named department store in Japan. And so if you happen to go over to Japan, don't be surprised if you see a Mitsukoshi over there, too. Another expansive gift shop located in Epcot's World Showcase is the House of Good fortune in the China Pavilion.

This wraps around the back section of the China Pavilion and has some of the most affordable souvenirs on property. I claim this from personal experience cuz I've gotten Chinese medicine balls and license trays and hidden box figures that range from $1 to $8. And I've also even gotten clothing here that has been incredibly reliable, useful, and gorgeous. But one of the most unique aspects of this shop is the Buddha offering area at the front where guests can place quarters and dollars in the Buddha's lap, representing good karma and vibes, hopefully for the rest of their Disney World vacation. In the winter, around the time of Chinese New Year, the House of Fortune also receives exclusive Disney themed New Year's items.

So, if you're looking to celebrate, this store will hook you up. From fireworks displays to the most rocking janitors you know. Here are the shows and entertainment offerings you can find around Epcot. From the most well-known to the least. Of course, your most popular show is going to be Luminous the Symphony of Us.

This is Epcot's fireworks show that happens once each night above World Showcase Lagoon. As long as you had a clear view of the lagoon, it doesn't matter which pavilion you're watching the show from. You should be able to see the bulk of it just fine. But if you'd like VIP fireworks seating for the show to enjoy a nice meal and a crystal clear view, check out the fireworks dining packages available for Rosen Crown in the UK pavilion, Spice Road Table in Morocco, and the brand new GO82 as well. Next, each evening after the sunset, Spaceship Earth is transformed with beautiful lighting effects set to music.

The shows happen about every 15 minutes throughout the night, and you'll likely catch an extra special display themed to the park's current seasonal festival if you stick around. The American Adventure is an audio animatronic stage show over in American Adventure Pavilion that takes you through important moments in American history. And basically, this is what my dad and I used to bond over all the time. And Turtle Talk with Crush is an interactive show inside Seabase that's been going viral recently where audience members get to ask Crush the Sea Turtle questions in real time. Okay, now it's time to start talking about the lesserk known shows of Epcot.

You can find shows playing in lots of the world showcase pavilions that highlight stud countries history, culture, and popular tourism points. These include reflections of China, Canada far and wide, and Impressions de France. Note that Impressions day France only happens at the very start or in the last hour or so towards the end of the day inside Palladu Cinema. During the rest of the day, this theater plays a Beauty and the Beast sing along instead. Speaking of World Showcase, lots of the World Showcase pavilions love to add an extra bit of musical or acrobatic streetmosphere to their respective countries.

So, be on the lookout for pop-up performances throughout the day. The Disney and Pixar Short Film Festival is an 18-minute experience backed by the Imagination Pavilion that plays three back-to-back Pixar short films using 3D effects. The jamters are streetmosphere performers who use trash cans and lids and brooms and several other cleaning tools to lay down high energy percussive beats. And when it comes to the most underground show in all of Epcot, I'd probably have to give that reward to Awesome Planet, which is hiding out on the second floor of the Land Pavilion. This is a 10-minute film that shows off, well, our Awesome Planet and why it's so important for us to take care of it.

It's also a nice place to take a break in the AC with little to no crowds if you're searching for a place to take a quick breather. Okay, good news. You've got several chances to meet and greet with characters outside of the character dining restaurants in Epcot. And here's a comprehensive list of where you can meet different characters, which I'll sort based on how frequently you'll be able to find them in other Disney World parks, too. Note though, check the My Disney Experience app for more specific meet and greet times, as well as more precise meet and greet locations.

So, these characters are pretty common. You're going to see them in every Disney World park, so you don't necessarily have to prioritize them on an Epcot day. If you're wanting to meet the Fab Five, Mickey and friends hang out daily in Communicore Hall. But you can also meet Disney pals near Epcot's main entrance. Characters here vary, but most often you'll find Pluto and Minnie andor Goofy.

Every now and then, Epcot will surprise us with two more great spots to find characters that won't always be listed on the My Disney Experience app, and that's toward the International Gateway and World Showcase, tucked between the United Kingdom and France pavilions, and near the American Adventure Pavilion. In the past, we've seen pop-up characters like Daisy, Pluto, several other faces, too. So, be on the lookout just in case they make an appearance during your visit. Now, these next characters appear in one or two other parks, but they're relatively uncommon. But you're going to find them up here regularly in Epcot.

For instance, when it comes to the Disney princesses, Moana likes to hang out in world nature near the Journey of Water inspired by Moana attraction, which makes sense. Anna and Elsa take up residence over in the Royal Summerhouse in the Norway pavilion. Snow White hangs out near Germany by a little stone well. Belle and Princess Aurora tend to pop up around the France pavilion, and Jasmine has a little meet and greet spot tucked into the Morocco pavilion. Meanwhile, over in the UK, you'll see a few other more uncommon characters out and about, like Alice and Mary Poppins and sometimes Winnie the Pooh.

Now, these rare characters are only in Epcot. If you want to meet and greet with the following, the only place you'll be able to see them in Disney World during average park days is right here. First, there's Figment, who you'll find inside the Imagination Pavilion. Star-Lord hangs out near Guardians of the Galaxy Cosmic Rewind. Again, makes sense.

Donald Duck isn't exactly a rare meet and greet character, but the only place you'll be able to meet him while he's wearing his three caviar attire is outside Epcot's Mexico pavilion. Mulan tends to keep to the China pavilion not too far away from the Temple of Heaven. And Asha from Disney's Wish Film makes occasional appearances over at the World Showcase Plaza Gazebo. Now, aside from Epcot's many, many rides and restaurants and shows, here are some other things this park has to offer that don't fall into those specific theme park categories, but we still want you to know about. In 2024, World Celebration welcomed new park areas like the relaxing World Celebration Gardens and a brand new festival area called Communicore Hall and Plaza, which rotates out new exhibits and entertainment with each festival.

Journey of Water, inspired by Moana, was also added to the Epcot family in 2024, giving you the chance to explore an interactive trail that lets you play with magical living water through an immersive, self-guided walkthrough area. Seabase has been around for a while, but I think many folks tend to overlook just how cool it is that you can basically explore a giant aquarium setting inside Epcot for no extra cost. You can take advantage of this one after you get off the seas with Nemo and Friends dark ride or just come on over to Seab Base and skip the Nemo ride entirely if you'd prefer. You don't have to ride the Nemo ride in order to explore the aquarium, but the ride will spit you out at Seab Base once it wraps up. Speaking of underrated offerings, the World Showcase has restaurants and shows and gift shops of plenty.

But don't forget to seek out those cultural exhibits and galleries that could be hiding out across the different pavilions, too. These include places like the Mexico Folk Art Gallery, the Stave Church in Norway. Yes, you can actually go inside. You should. The House of the Whispering Willows Shanghai Disneyland exhibit in China.

So chill and peaceful in there. The American Heritage Gallery, the Vijutsu Khan Gallery featuring Kawaii, Japan's cute culture, and the Gallery of Arts and History in Mexico. There's a lot of doors that a lot of people think you can't go in, but you can. and Club Cool and World Celebration is going to give you that rare opportunity to sample Coca-Cola beverages from around the globe for free. You thought we were done talking about Epcot, but no, friends, we're just getting started.

If you're ready to dive even deeper into the Epcot scene, go ahead and check out one of our other Epcot specific videos on the channel, like the ultimate guide to Epcot food or ranking every country in Epcot. That one was a blast, and I can't wait to see what you think about it. And don't forget to download our free Lightning lanes guide right now over at disneyfoodblog.com/multipaths. Thanks for listening everyone and thanks for watching. As always, this is AJ for Disney Food Blog and we'll see you real soon.
