# The Ultimate Guide to Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disney World

Source: https://www.undercovertourist.com/blog/star-wars-galaxys-edge-disney-world/

Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:34:03.790900+00:00

## Content

'Sup! Tad here to bring you the full rundown on the most exciting land to ever hit this galaxy, or at least the galaxy known as Walt Disney World. That's right — I'm talking about Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disney's Hollywood Studios! This awesome guide includes everything about the incredible themed land, including the rides, restaurants, characters and experiences that let guests create their own story within the "Star Wars" universe. So, my fellow Padawans, let's hop to it!
FAQs
- Where is Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge located? Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge is located in Disney's Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World Resort.
- What rides are in Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge? Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge is home to Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance and Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run.
- What characters can I meet in Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge? In Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge, you can meet a First Order Stormtrooper, Kylo Ren, Chewbacca, Rey, Vi Moradi and The Mandalorian himself!
- What is there to eat and drink in Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge? In Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge, you can treat yourself to a cup of Batuu's legendary blue, green or the new pink milk at the Milk Stand, quench your thirst at Oga's Cantina, fuel up on galactic grub at Docking Bay 7, sink your teeth into a famous Ronto Wrap at Ronto Roasters or grab at snack at Kat Saka's Kettle.
- When does Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge take place? The main story events of Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge are set between "Episode VIII — The Last Jedi" and "Episode IX — The Rise of Skywalker."
Overview of Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Walt Disney World
Frogs have been traveling to Batuu, also known as Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge, at Walt Disney World since Aug. 29, 2019. There is no special admission required to access Galaxy's Edge once in Hollywood Studios.
If the name is any indication, Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge is literally on the edge of Disney's Hollywood Studios, opposite the park's entrance and adjacent to Toy Story Land. There are two entrances to the land. You can enter either through Toy Story Land or Grand Avenue.
Experience all four Walt Disney World Theme Parks this summer with the 4-Day, 4-Park Magic Ticket! Valid for arrivals from May 26 to Sept. 26, 2026.
From either entrance, watch as the landscape (including the ambient sounds) begins to change, welcoming you to someplace far, far away. Guests will find themselves in the Black Spire Outpost on the planet of Batuu. This once-thriving settlement is now home to smugglers, rogue traders, droids and other strange creatures trying to stay out of sight of the First Order. The remote outpost takes its name from the petrified spires that were once ancient, towering trees surrounding the river valleys and plains.
As a fellow traveler, you'll be able to visit a street market, shop in the food stalls and enjoy treats such as Blue Milk or head over to Oga's Cantina for a drink. While in Galaxy's Edge, you are living in the "Star Wars" universe — take a chance to fly the Millennium Falcon or narrowly escape from the First Order. There's even a new Star Wars: Batuu Bounty Hunter game through the new MagicBand+ that lets you search Black Spire Outpost for your virtual bounty. Talk about a space adventure!
Now I may not be as wise as Yoda or as strong as Luke (that's Skywalker to all of you), but I can tell you Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge toadally rocks.
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Walt Disney World Attractions
Of course, the star attractions of Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Walt Disney World are the rides. Being one of the pilots on the Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run is basically a life-changing experience. But Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance toadally rocked my world (or should I say, galaxy?) in the best way possible. You won't want to miss experiencing these epic attractions!
Disney Lightning Lane Passes have been replaced with the Disney Genie+ service. With this new system, guests are able to make attraction selections several days in advance of their visit, starting at 7 a.m. Eastern Time on their first day of eligibility. Before you purchase a Lightning Lane pass, you must already have tickets and may need a theme park reservation (depending on the type of admission and the date of visit).
Rise of the Resistance be accessed via a traditional standby line or as a Disney Lightning Lane Single Pass selection. Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run offers a standby line, a Single Rider line and Disney Lighting Lane Multi Pass access.
Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run
Ready to ride the fastest ship in the galaxy? Not so fast! Before you board, you'll walk through a full-size replica of the Millennium Falcon. This is one queue you don't want to skip! Can you imagine climbing through the hatch and walking through the hallways before you finally arrive to take a seat inside the cockpit? I'm getting goosebumps (or should I say, frogbumps) just thinking about it!
Try not to get too distracted because there is a mission. Space pirate Hondo Ohnaka of "Clone Wars" and "Star Wars Rebels" fame has cut a deal with Chewbacca for use of the Falcon. He will lead you on a secret mission to bring back the loot as you hurl through hyperspace.
You'll be part of a six-person crew and can take a turn in one of three different flight crew positions — pilot, gunner or flight engineer! I've tried all three, and I gotta say being the pilot is toadally rad. Lily, however, loves pushing all of the buttons as the engineer. Near the end of the queue, a cast member will hand you a color-coded card with your role assignment. It is given randomly, but you can try to switch with another person in your crew before you board. The left-side pilot controls horizontal movement, while the right-side pilot steers the ship up and down. They have to work together to fly the ship. The gunners, who sit in the middle row, hit buttons to fire and shoot the lasers and guns. The flight engineers fix any damage to the ship. Depending on how the team works together, they could sit back and relax ... or be constantly repairing the ship. Every mission that we've gone on has been different!
Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run uses real-time video technology that will respond to the way you use the cockpit controls. Here's the TLDR: You'll see the real-time results of your mission, so make it count! With the cockpit allowing six people, you will likely be matched with another party. If you have a larger group, you'll be split up. If you use the Single Rider Line, you'll usually end up as one of the Engineers. Smugglers Run is offered as a Lightning Lane Multi Pass selection.
Get ready to don your Beskar armor because the Millennium Falcon has a brand new mission! Mando and his youngling now guide your flight crew on thrilling and dangerous adventures. This new mission debuted on May 22, 2026, when "The Mandalorian and Grogu" hit theaters.
For the first time ever, you'll be in charge of what planets your ship visits, so you may find yourself flying through some familiar locations. In an expanded partnership with Disney and Epic Games, Epic's Unreal Engine will help bring to life the latest story in a galaxy far, far away. In particular, the engineers will be the ones who interact with Grogu. "This is the way."
Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance
I thought it’d be hard to beat Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run, but Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance is one of my absolute favorite rides at Disney World. Disney hyped it up to be the biggest and most immersive Disney Parks attraction ever built, and I can toadally understand why. It truly feels like you’re in a "Star Wars" movie! I promise I won’t spoil everything, but if you want to go in without any knowledge, skip ahead of these spoilers that set up the storyline!
The adventure begins when you meet BB-8 and a holographic Rey, who explains that a covert Resistance team led by Finn has infiltrated a First Order Star Destroyer and the post on Batuu is no longer safe. Lieutenant Bek steers the transport ship that you immediately board, but the ship gets attacked by TIE fighters and is overtaken by the First Order Star Destroyer.
Once you disembark from the transport ship, you come face to face with 50 stormtroopers — it's very intimidating! The cast members who play First Order officers order you into a prison cell, where Kylo Ren threateningly demands the location of the secret base. But you’re able to escape with the help of the Resistance team onboard.
From there, you board the trackless ride vehicles operated by droids. As you maneuver your way through the Star Destroyer, you’re put right in the middle of an epic battle between the Resistance fleet and the First Order! I'm not sure which moment was cooler — moving through the legs of the AT-AT walkers or abandoning the Star Destroyer in an escape pod.
If you just want the brief lowdown, Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance is a game-changer. We think everyone in the family will love it. It's not too scary (it only has one swift drop), and it did not trigger Mommy Frog's motion sickness.
Rise offers a paid skip-the-line option as a Lightning Lane Single Pass selection.
Characters of Star Wars: Galaxy’s Edge at Walt Disney World
One of the things I love about the land is meeting some of the colorful characters and otherworldly creatures hiding out and making deals in Black Spire Outpost (just keep a lookout for First Order soldiers)! Besides this green frog, you'll see aliens, droids and humanoids. You may also spot some familiar faces, including Chewbacca, Kylo Ren and Rey!
I also enjoy running into Vi Moradi. Watch out for her, because she keeps a low profile! The Resistance spy has blue hair and wears an orange jacket. Most of the characters can be spotted near the speeder garage across from Droid Depot, while Kylo Ren and his stormtroopers interrogate guests by their TIE Echelon near the Milk Stand. The characters are back to roaming around, so you never know who you'll see. Recently, we caught the Mandalorian and Grogu!
But what really brings the land to life are the Batuu residents — the cast members. They are dressed as villagers, Resistance members and First Order soldiers. They've been trained to interact with guests, and each person has a backstory. So, don't be shy to chat with them. You'll learn all about their life on Batuu! While they're in character, they may be confused if you ask questions like, "How do you get to Tower of Terror?" Instead, ask them where they live, why they're in Black Spire Outpost or what they think of the Resistance and the First Order showing up.
Before you go, brush up on the language of Batuu! You'll hear the residents use these common phrases:
- "Bright suns" = "Good morning"
- "Rising moons" = "Good evening"
- "Refresher" = "restroom"
- "Hydrator" = "water fountain"
- "Credits" = "money"
- "Datapad" = "cell phone"
- "Only the ancients know" = "I don't know"
- "Til the Spire" or "May the Spires keep you" = "Goodbye"
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge Food and Beverage
There is a galaxy of new food and drinks to discover at Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Walt Disney World ... and it's some of our favorite theme park food we've ever eaten! (Yes, really!)
Oga's Cantina
Local Black Spire Outpost watering hole, Oga's Cantina, is the it-spot for adult drinks, mocktails and other beverages. It doesn't have too many snack options, but the Rodian Ration contains Tito's Handmade Vodka, Dekuyper Pucker Sour Apple Liqueur, Green Apple, Sprite and Boba Balls with a Pop and the Oga's Obsession contains Minute Maid Premium Lemonade, Cotton Candy Flavor and Blueberry Popping Pearls with a Bursting Dried Fruit Mixture.
While it is a watering hole, there are tadpole-friendly options available, including the nonalcoholic, cookies-and-milk-like Blue Bantha (a plant-based blend of coconut and rice milk with a vanilla-butter sugar cookie. Mommy Frog, meanwhile, tends to opt for refreshing and fruity The Mythosaur (Minute Maid Passion Fruit Orange Guava Juice with a splash of Lime Juice with Appleton Estate 12 Yr Reserve Rum, Goslings Black Seal Rum, and Blue Curaçao Liqueur).
The cantina offers mostly standing room only, with Captain Rex, formerly of Star Tours — The Adventures Continue fame, playing DJ. If you have tadpoles, read that again: with mostly standing room only, my little sister Lily tends to get pretty antsy (or complain that her frog legs are too tired to stand), so we usually only hang around for a short amount of time. I mention this not to steer you away from the experience (because it is toadally worth it, in my frogpinion), but to set realistic expectations! The cantina itself has a fun vibe with funky alien music playing in the background. Sometimes the bartenders even sing and chant along!
You can make a reservation online! Reservations are available for dates up to 60 days out. A credit card must be on file to guarantee your reservation at Oga's Cantina. Cancellations can be made up to two hours before without penalty; however, any no-shows will be charged $10 per person. Guests should make reservations for the number of people in their party, as they would for any dining experience. Limited, day-of walk-ups may be available — check with cast members outside the cantina early in the day.
Guests will be limited to 45 minutes in the Cantina. Guests must be 21 years of age or over to consume alcohol; a valid photo ID is required.
Docking Bay 7 Food and Cargo
This will be the place for galactic tastes and flavors procured by one Chef Strono "Cookie" Tuggs, who has traveled the galaxy far and wide after his time at Maz Kanata's castle on Takodana. Menu items include smoky beef, roasted chicken salad, raw tuna, smoked pork ribs, fried chicken and chickpea falafel. (Again, while the tastes are alien enough to transport you to another world, they are down-to-earth enough to appeal to tadpoles — Lily loved the mac and cheese!) Mobile ordering is available at this location.
Ronto Roasters
Former smelter droid 8D-J8 turns the spit on tasty meats at Ronto Roasters. A recycled podracing engine does the roasting for this dining experience. It serves breakfast and lunch with a morning wrap and a Ronto wrap (roasted pork, grilled pork sausage, peppercorn sauce and tangy slaw wrapped in pita bread). After 3 p.m., you can find the Ronto wrap at Docking Bay 7.
You can also find a plant-based Zuchii wrap and Kyryll Pork Rinds. The Ronto wrap is still the Frog Family favorite, though! In fact, the Ronto wrap is my dad, Leap's, most favorite thing to eat at Hollywood Studios.
Milk Stand
Get your farm-fresh blue milk (or green and even a new pink milk!) from this stand direct from Bubo Wamba Family Farms. The frozen concoctions, made famous by Luke Skywalker in "Star Wars IV: A New Hope," are quite refreshing and unlike any milk you’ve ever tasted.
Unlike Disneyland, the Milk Stand in Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disney's Hollywood Studios also has alcoholic versions of blue and green milk. The Milk Stand is also available through mobile ordering.
Kat Saka's Kettle
Munch on the Outpost Mix, a blend of sweet, savory and spicy popcorn. Mommy Frog really enjoyed the unusual flavors. She thought it was similar to kettle corn, but not as sweet. It's also where you can get Cold Brew Black Caf. It's Joffrey's Coffee Cold Brew topped with sweet cream cheese and chocolate puffs — one of Mommy Frog's favorites! You can get a spiked version too.
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge Merchandise at Walt Disney World
Disney Imagineers made trips to Istanbul and Marrakesh for inspiration in creating Black Spire Outpost's marketplace, a collection of shops and merchant stalls. More animatronics serve as shopkeepers, such as the Toydarian presiding over the toy store. As you're walking through the marketplace, it really feels like you're somewhere else in the galaxy, with a one-eyed Dianoga lurking in the water fountain (sorry, hydrator) and other alien critters in the Creature Stall.
Reservations can go quickly for the lightsaber-building experience at Savi's Workshop, which can be made 60 days in advance. Droid Depot still accepts walk-ins. (Psst ... there have been some reservations available after Hollywood Studios officially closes for both Oga's and Savi's, making for some awesome photos as you leave the park!)
Dok-Ondar's Den of Antiquities
Wheeler-dealer Ithorian Dok-Ondar presides over rare and unique items and antiquities from across the galaxy. This is where you can find additional kyber crystals and holocrons, as well as the popular legacy lightsabers which are replicas of popular "Star Wars" characters. It's worth a stop to take in the creatures within, including Dok himself.
Savi's Workshop - Handbuilt Lightsabers
It doesn't matter whether you're a grown frog or a youngling — you will get emotional during this experience. Boy, I sure did. Inside Savi's Workshop, you will be able to customize your own lightsaber under the guidance of one of the Masters, who has extensive knowledge of Jedi lore. But keep this on the down low! Outside of the workshop, you should refer to lightsabers as "scrap metal" so the First Order does not suspect you. The experience costs $274.99, plus tax and reservations are available online starting 60 days in advance.
Droid Depot
Get ready to build your own astromech droid! Some of the most lovable companions in the Star Wars universe are droids. Who wouldn't want to bring home their very R2-D2 or BB-8? Pick pieces and parts off of a conveyor belt to construct either an R-series or BB-series of your very own ... then watch as they interact with elements throughout Galaxy's Edge! (You do have to keep them in the box, though.) Walk-ins are accepted based on availability.
Building a droid costs $129.99, plus tax. Reservations are now available online, or by calling (407) 939-6690. A credit card must be on file to guarantee your Droid Depot reservation. Cancellations can be made up to the day before without penalty; however, any no-shows will be charged $129.99 per person. Custom droids are non-refundable. The number of guests on the reservation should reflect how many people will be building and purchasing a droid. Guests may bring one additional person with them to observe the building experience. The accompanying guest(s) should not be a part of the guest count on the reservation. This experience takes approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Note that using a remote-control device to operate a droid while at the theme parks is prohibited, and the droid will need to be carried during a visit to the parks. There are also some fun droid backpack and carrier options! Learn more in our out-of-this-world guide.
First Order Cargo
The First Order is taking up shop in a spaceport hangar bay on the outskirts of town. Look for gear, uniforms and other supplies ... that is, if you decide to pledge your allegiance to the First Order. You can even purchase the First Order Stormtrooper armor that's pictured above for a hefty price tag. Mommy Frog told me "hard no," but I'd rather be a Resistance rebel anyway.
Resistance Supply
Stock up or resupply! You'll find Resistance uniforms, pins, jackets, tools, training supplies and more.
Street Market Stalls
Toydarian Toymaker - This "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace" character presides over this stall that sells toys, including adorable plush versions of your favorite characters.
Creature Stalls - You'll find unique "critters" to take home, including the adorable porgs. Santhas, tauntauns and loth cats are also available. Be sure to say hi to the loth cat inside the cage!
Black Spire Outfitters - Clothing fit for space travelers to commemorate their adventures.
The Jewels of Bith - Accessories, trinkets and other treasures.
Tips for Visiting Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Walt Disney World
Here are some hopful tips on how to make the most out of your experience on the planet of Batuu.
Look Out for Details
The land is super immersive, and there are tiny details everywhere you look. When you're checking out the shops in Black Spire Outpost, look at everything from the ground and up to the ceiling. There could be something in those nooks and crannies! One of Mommy Frog's favorite details was the tracks found on the sidewalks. You could see where droids and alien creatures have trudged through Batuu. Meanwhile, my favorite view is through the window of the Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run queue, where you can look down and see the incredibly detailed top of the ship.
Listen to the Sounds
No matter where you are in the land, you'll hear ambient noise. Whether it's droids beeping or the Millennium Falcon sputtering, there's always something to listen to. Take the time to use all of your senses as you travel through the land. If the crowds are high and the lines are long, you can spend a good amount of time looking at the details and listening to sounds.
Interact with the Characters
I know I've already mentioned it before, but I'll say it again. Possibly the most immersive aspect of the land is the characters, which includes the cast members! Stormtroopers may confront you, and ask what you are doing on your datapad, or Vi Moradi could try to recruit you to join the Resistance. We've even seen Chewbacca pick out unsuspecting travelers from the crowd to compete in a Wookiee roar contest.
Expect the Unexpected
We've been traveling to Batuu for a while now, and it's safe to say that we're still experiencing new interactions each time we go. All of the character appearances are still unscheduled, so we never truly know who we'll run into. Even if you're only at Disney's Hollywood Studios for a day, we highly suggest that you visit Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at least twice before you leave.
Play the New Batuu Bounty Hunters Game
Calling all space adventurers — it’s time to collect some bounty with Star Wars: Batuu Bounty Hunters! Using the MagicBand+, you must track down a virtual bounty in Black Spire Outpost. Your band will turn green if you get closer to your bounty or red if you're straying further away from your bounty. When it turns purple, you've found it! You can then use the Play Disney Parks app to see what’s behind the hidden doors at Black Spire Outpost with the augmented reality feature. The local guild master Raga Bua then rewards you with galactic credits. Hop over to our toadally galactic guide for more details!
Go at Night for a Different Experience
Just like Pandora over at Disney's Animal Kingdom, the land completely transforms when the sun goes down. Blue lights behind the Millennium Falcon make the land glow in the night sky. The barbecue pit at Ronto Roasters turns a fiery red. And of course, you HAVE to bring out your lightsaber to see it all lit up ... a perfect photo-op! We also recommend riding Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run at night, as you might notice your take-off and landing looks a little different, plus you'll also find the shortest waits at night for both of the popular attractions.
Save Memories with PhotoPass Opportunities
You'll probably never froget seeing the Millennium Falcon for the first time. Capture that memory with a photo! There are PhotoPass locations throughout the land. Two are near the Millennium Falcon — one is up the stairs by the doors of Docking Bay 7 Food and Cargo, while the other is across from Oga's Cantina. For a pretty rad Super Zoom Magic Shot video, visit the photographer near First Order Cargo to snap some photos of yourself from a unique angle above the planet.
Get Creative and Dress Up
Younglings 13 and under are welcome to wear costumes as long as they provide unobstructed vision with openings that allow the eyes to be fully seen at all times. Frogs who are 14 and older cannot wear full costumes, but they can come in style! Wear outfits that are inspired by the First Order, the Resistance, smugglers or droids. If you want to fit in with the Batuu residents, stick to earthy colors and focus on natural materials with a rugged, handmade look. Armor, stormtrooper uniforms and Chewbacca look-alikes aren't allowed, so you aren't confused with the roaming characters. Learn more about DisneyBounding, a creative way to use real clothes inspired by characters' costumes!
Other Star Wars Experiences at Hollywood Studios
While Galaxy's Edge is the hub of all things "Star Wars" at Hollywood Studios, it's still not everything! If venturing outside of Batuu, take flight on a Starspeeder 1000 and explore other planets on Star Tours — The Adventures Continue. Did you know that there are more than 250 storyline variations? You never know where you may end up or who you'll run into. Ahsoka Tano, Cassian Andor and The Mandalorian and Grogu might intercept your travels.
At Star Wars Launch Bay, you'll find exhibits of costumes, models, concept artwork and even real movie props (or authentic replicas) from the "Star Wars" films. This is also where you can hug Chewbacca, meet BB-8 and face Darth Vader himself.
Have you visited Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disney World? Planning a trip to Batuu? Drop us a line in the comments and let us know what you're most excited about!
Related: 10 Out-of-This-World Tips for Visiting Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge
Stay cool!
