# Which Rooms at Disney's Pop Century Resort are Best for YOU? (Walt Disney World Room Request Tips)

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qe8lHMOAL6w&t=1113s&pp=ygUfcG9wIGNlbnR1cnkgcmVzb3J0IGRpc25leSB3b3JsZA%3D%3D
Channel: Monorail Supply Co
Duration: 23:23
Published: 2025-07-09
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:17:37.077288+00:00

## Transcript

Disney's Pop Century Resort has more rooms than any other resort at Walt Disney World. It also receives the most room requests out of any other resort at Walt Disney World. Meaning, if you don't make a room request, you are more likely to end up in a less ideal section for your vacation style. Whether you want to be close to dining, close to transportation, in the middle of the action, or in a quieter section of the resort, this video will help you decide the best place for you to request for your vacation style. Hello, my lovely humans.

I'm Kenzie and I have had the opportunity to stay in each section of Disney's Pop Century Resort. So, I am so excited to share what I have learned with all of you today so that you can make the best requests for you and your vacation style. Today, we are going to go section by section, decade by decade, and I'm going to share the pros, the considerations, and who I think the ideal vacation archetype is for each section. I will also share my ultimate favorite sections with all of you as well. Most people don't even know that you can make room requests at Walt Disney World.

So, the fact that you're watching this video does put you one step ahead of everybody else. Room requests are never guaranteed at Walt Disney World, but in our experience, most of the time Disney has been able to accommodate them. So, they are definitely worth trying so that you can hopefully get exactly what you are looking for. At Disney's Pop Central Resort, there are so many things you can request. You can request certain buildings, certain decades, certain floors, or even if you just need something like a crib, you can request that as well.

At the end of this video, I'm going to share all the different ways that you can make room requests. And I'm also going to share all of my pro tips with you so that you are more likely to get your request granted, just like the genie in his three bushes. Am I right? Okay, we have a lot to cover, so let's get this magic started. I have to cover a couple of foundational things with you in order for this video to make sense.

But if you are looking for a complete overview of Disney's Pop Centure Resort, I have already made that video. It is a fantastic watch if you are considering booking a stay here or if you've already booked a stay here and you just want a lay of the land and to know exactly what the resort has and where everything is. So, I will link it in the corner and in the caption below so that you can watch it after today's video. Pop Century Resort has 10 different buildings and three different pools. It also has one really important building that you are definitely going to want to know the name of.

The name of that building is Classic Hall. Classic Hall houses the lobby for the resort. It also has a fun arcade. It has shopping and it also has the food court area which is the only dining location for this resort as well. Just a few steps outside of Classic Hall, you will find the bus transportation for this resort.

The Disney bus system is completely free to use and it will take you to Disney's Magic Kingdom and Disney's Animal Kingdom as well as Disney Springs. At the back of the resort, you will find the Disney Skyliner system. The Skyliner will take you to Epcot and Disney's Hollywood Studios and several other resorts in the boardwalk area as well. So, it's a huge pro to have the Skyliner at a value resort. So when I say that rooms are close or far away from transportation, those are the two things that I am referencing.

Where the buses are at the front of the resort and where the Skyliner is at the back of the resort. Disney's Pop Centure Resort is like walking through time. It is so fun. It is themed to several different decades from the 1950s to the 1990s. The theming is larger than life and Disney uses a lot of bright colors, so it's really perfect for any kids or kids at heart.

There are two main room categories at Disney's Pop Century Resort. There are standard rooms and there are preferred rooms. The preferred rooms do cost more. And the reason for that is because the room locations are considered more ideal locations. So, the rooms that Disney feels are more ideal because of their proximity to things like dining and everything in Classic Hall, meaning you're close to the buses, potentially close to the Skyliner, and also close to the Hippie Dippy pool, which is the main pool here at Disney's Pop Central Resort, and it's the biggest one as well.

There are two types of preferred view categories. There is something called just preferred room, and there is something else called preferred pool view. The preferred room category has views of the courtyard or other landscaping at Pop Century and the preferred pool views have views of the Hippie Dippy pool. Both categories are close to classic hall dining and transportation. Standard rooms have views of the resort hotel or parking areas.

All of the categories of rooms have two different configurations. one configuration, which is the majority of the rooms, is one queen bed and one queen-size table bed. The bed just pulls down and it can also go back up and be a table during the day to give you more room in your resort. The second type of configuration is the king bed configuration. In that configuration, you do not have the additional queen-size pull down bed.

There are only a handful of these in each section at Pop Century. We have found that preferred rooms are not always the best rooms to book. So, let's go explore each section and see what's best for you and your vacation needs. Welcome to the 1950s section of the resort. Buildings 1, 2, and three are located in the 1950s section.

There are several types of room types in this section. You can find preferred rooms. You can also find standard rooms and standard pool view rooms. I created some handy graphics for each section of the resort and you will see a color code key in the lefthand corner that will tell you exactly which room is which room type here so that it is really easy for you to see the different options that each section has. It also has room numbers for you as well.

So, it'll make it really easy for you to be able to request the exact section and potentially even room number or room numbers that you're looking for. At the end of this video, you will notice that the preferred rooms are located in building 1 and in building 3. And that is because they are slightly closer to things like the hippie-dippy pool and to classic hall as well as the Skyliner system. I will say that if you booked a preferred room, you don't really have to request a room because you're automatically going to be put close to things that are important to most people. However, there are some instances where you might want a slightly better room or you want to stay in a certain section, for example.

So, I will also be covering preferred rooms in this video as well as the standard rooms. If you booked a standard room, but you would like the convenience of staying in the 1950s section, then I recommend requesting building 3 as your top priority. If possible, I recommend requesting the left-handed side of the wing of building 3. specifically rooms 49 through 54 will give you a 5 minute or less walk to the lobby and to transportation, which is really nice. If you can't get that, though, don't worry.

The rest of the standard rooms in building 3 are a 10-minute or less walk to the lobby and to transportation. These standard rooms in building one are also a good option, but they are slightly further away than building 3 from things like dining, transportation, and of course, the hippie- dippy pool, but it's ever so slightly further away. It's really not that far at all. In fact, you will only be a 10-minute or less walk away from all of those things, so you're still very close. The 1950 section also has a unique pool.

It is themed after a bowling alley, and it is really cute. In fact, it's honestly my favorite pool here at Pop Century. It is one of the quieter pools here as well. There's only one that's considered quote unquote loud, but that's because it's lively and fun, and we'll definitely be covering that in today's video. The bowling alley pool is on the quieter side, which is nice.

You don't really have to worry about sound levels as much when you are in this section. However, if you are concerned about noise levels, then you can request a higher level floor or a room that's on the outside of the building away from the pool. I know noise level is a huge concern for people. So, I turned off the noise cancellation on my microphone. I'm walking right next to the pool right now, and this is how loud it is, just to give you an idea.

So, this pool is definitely more on the quiet side compared to some other pools here at Pop Century. People that have their own cars or rental cars also really love this section because there is a parking lot located right next to it. So, it makes it really easy to get to and from your car if you have one with you on your trip. The primary reason though that people love this section is because it really is a great midway point between the buses and the Skyliner. So, it's really easy just to get back and forth and to classic hall to get to the food.

It's just a really ideal location and the theming is super fun in this section as well. Oh, welcome to the 1960s. Buildings four and five are located in this century. And if you like being in the middle of the action, this is the century for you. The reason for that is because it is home to the Hippie Dippy pool, which is the largest and most fun pool here at Pop Century Resort.

I mean, I guess you could argue which one is the most fun, but a lot of people would tell you that it's this one. The reason for that is because there is always music playing when the pool's open. There are cast members playing games with the kids, and it's overall just popping and vibing, and it's just a fun time, you know, so it's a good place to be. It's also extremely centrally located. It is the closest section to the Skyliner, I would say.

And it's also really close to the classic hall and the buses and the dining as well. Because the hippie- dippy pool is in this section, you will find both preferred and preferred pool view rooms in this section as well as standard rooms. Because these buildings are facing the hippie- dippy pool, they can also be the loudest rooms in the resort. If you have a room that is facing the pool, that is. If you are concerned about noise, but you still want to stay in this section, you can request a room on a higher floor or even a room that is not facing the pool directly in this section.

I'm currently walking on the outside of the section, not by the pool. And I turned the noise cancellation off, so you can kind of hear, but in real life, I can hear a little bit of music, but that's it. Also, the Skyliner is a little bit um but in a room, I don't think you'd be able to hear those things right here for whatever it's worth. But if sound is an important factor for you, if you have kids that take naps or you like to take naps or anything like that, then I would avoid this section. We are walking by the pool now just to give you an idea of noise.

I will say that it's a little bit quieter than usual pool right now. Usually the music is a little bit louder and the games aren't going on right now too, which also adds to the noise. There's also a splash pad in this section as well. Um, if you have a little one that would like to play in, if you are looking for a quiet room or rooms to request for this section, you are going to want to request a room near the end of building 5 or building 4 or one again that does not face the pool that's on the outside of the building. There are preferred pool and standard rooms in these categories.

So, just pick whatever category you booked or maybe consider booking that if you haven't booked yet. The preferred pool rooms in these buildings are five minutes or less away from all transportation options and all the main amenities. But if you want to be slightly closer, you can request the bottom wings of the buildings. The standard rooms in these buildings are 10 minutes or less away from all the transportation options and the main amenities, making the 60s section a groovy place to stay as long as you don't mind the noise. Building six and 10 are located in the 1970s section.

There is no pool in this section, so it is a little bit more on the quieter side. So, a lot of people do like that. However, I will say right now they are playing some loop music that is a little bit on the louder side that I've never noticed over here before. So, I'm not sure if that's a new thing or not, but you also are just steps away from all the main amenities. And you're not too far from the Skyliner or the buses as well.

The rooms closest to Classic Hall are preferred rooms and the rest are standard rooms. For standard rooms, building six in the 1970 section is a good choice to request. I recommend asking for the right-hand wing. Rooms 20 to 24 will put you closer to the main amenities and it will be a short walk from the Hippie Dippy pool. If you get these rooms, you will be a 5inut or less walkway from the transportation and the main amenities.

All other rooms in this section are a 10-minute or less walk away. For a preferred room, I recommend asking for the right-handed wing of building 6 or building 10. That will give you the shortest walk to everything, and you'll be looking at a 5-minute or less walk away from all amenities and transportation. Personal favorite thing about the 1970s section is the theming. You will see a big wheel, the iconic Mickey Mouse telephone, Mr.

and Mrs. potato head and a giant foosball table. Oh, and they even have a life-size twister. Although there's not a pool in the 1970s section, it is just steps away from the hippie dippy pool. So, in my opinion, you get the best of both worlds staying in this section.

And this section definitely gets a gold star of approval from me and is a Montreal Supply Co. favorite. Buildings seven and nine are in the 1980s section of the resort. In the middle of this section is a pool called the computer pool. It tends to be the least crowded pool out of the three pools here at Pop Centry, and it also tends to be the quietest out of the three pools as well.

So, if noise is a concern for you, then this could potentially be a great section to consider. There are no preferred rooms in this sententury because of how far away it is from all the transportation options and the main amenities. Although it is far, it's all relative. It's probably about a 10 to 15 minute walk on average, but it's definitely one of the furthest centuries away from all of the other things that people love. If peace and quiet are a top priority for you, then this is a great section to consider.

So, I am talking to you that like to take naps in the middle of the day, or if you have kids that like to nap in the middle of the day, or if you just like to relax from being overstimulated in the parks all day, this is a great option to consider. I recommend requesting a room at the end of the right hand side of building 9. If you want to stay in this section, so you will have easier access to the buses and to classic hall. A lot of people don't realize this, but all you have to do is cross that parking lot and you will be to the buses and you'll also be at Classic Hall. It's technically a quote unquote shortcut, if you will.

Um, but it really doesn't take that long when you use that method. So, that's a pro tip if you end up staying in the 80s or the '90s section. The biggest downside of this section and the 1990s section, which we're about to talk about, is the walk to the Skyliner. It has a path along the water, which is beautiful. But if you are here and it is super hot or rainy, which it is most times of the year in Florida, unfortunately, then it can feel like a very long and hot or wet walk.

It probably takes on average, I would say, around 15 minutes to get to the Skyliner from these sections. So, it's by far the longest walk you will have to the Skyliner from any of the other sections at Pop Centry. The 80s section definitely does win an award for peace and quiet and just overall chill vibes. However, it does have that pool. So, if noise is a concern for you, then consider requesting on higher floors or on the back sides of the buildings, just like all the other sections with pools.

There is only one building in the 90 section, and that is building 8. There are no preferred rooms in this section for the same reason there are no preferred rooms in the 80s section. It is far away from all the main amenities and transportation. Just like the 80s, I would say it's anywhere from a 10 to 15 minute walk away from a lot of the transportation options, but it's definitely leaning more on the 15minute plus side if I'm being honest with you. Like the 80s section, it is known for peace and quiet, so it's a great section to stay in if that is important to you.

It's also located right by a parking lot. Technically, the 80s section is as well. So, it's kind of like a pro of the 80s section, too. So, if you have a car, this could be another great option for you as well. And just like the 80 section, if you cut across the parking lot, you will be able to be to the bus transportation and classic hall super quickly, but that Skyliner walk is very far away.

If you want to stay in this section, I recommend requesting the right hand wing near the end, so you're a little closer to that parking lot that you can cross to get to the buses and classic hall. It is located right next to the 80s buildings, so it's also in close proximity to the computer pool. Again, that pool isn't very loud compared to the other pools, and I think you would be fine in any of the rooms in the 80s section and the '9s section if noise is a concern. But if you are very very concerned and you want to be sure that you are going to have complete peace and quiet, then request a room on one of the upper floors or on the outside of the building. It is time for the section you have all been waiting for, and that is how to request a room at Walt Disney World.

There are two ways to request a room. The first is utilizing online check-in, which is available up to 60 days in advance of your vacation. And what you do is you pull up either My Disney Experience, the app on your phone. Make sure you're logged in and your resort is all connected and everything, and there will be a button for early online check-in, or you can do it through your My Disney Experience app as well. So, that's another way you can do it.

Whenever you utilize this method, you will get a pre-populated list of requests that you can choose from. It changes a lot to be honest with you and it also depends on the resort in terms of what options will be available. The options that are available are always very vague and very broad. So for example, the last time that I checked what the options are for Pop Century, it was either a firstf floor room or a room close to a pool. So most likely whatever you're trying to request won't be there, but it never hurts to check if you want to.

The second way and the way that I recommend is by calling Disney directly and speaking to a cast member. I'm going to put the phone number of exactly where to call on the screen so you know exactly what number to call. Whenever you talk to the cast member, you can be more specific. So you can request things like a certain sentry, a certain building, a certain room or group of rooms for example, or even something as simple as I just want to be close to transportation. So you have a lot more flexibility and options when you speak to a cast member.

So that is the route that I recommend that you follow. so you can hopefully get exactly what you're looking for. It's time for me to share all of my pro tips so that you have a better chance of getting exactly what it is that you're looking for. The first pro tip that I have is make sure you are requesting a room in the category that you booked. So, for example, if you booked a preferred room, do not request a room in the 90 section because there are no preferred rooms in that section and it will not be granted.

Another example is if you booked a preferred pool view, then don't request the 70 section because there are no preferred pool view rooms in that section. That is one reason why I included all those handy dandy graphics so that you can see exactly what types of categories of rooms are in each area that we discussed today. So you can go back and reference those to see what matches up with what you booked or if you haven't booked yet, it will give you an idea of what you do want to book so that whatever you request matches what your um booking is. So that is a really important tip. Another important pro tip is to try to be as broad as possible and to give them as many options as possible to be more likely to get what you want.

So, I don't recommend just giving them one room number. Although, you can if you want to. It just may be less likely that you're going to get your request. Instead, if you do do that, I do recommend providing some backup options you would also be okay with if that option is not available or providing a range of rooms um that are maybe like all in the same area that you would be okay with getting. But again, the broader you can get, the better.

So, if it's like a whole century you're open to, I would let them know that. Or if you just want to be close to something in particular, let them know that. And that will give them more flexibility to hopefully get what you are wanting and hoping for for your trip. I did not know this myself, but the way that it works is 5 days before check-in, all of these requests go to someone and they sort through them and they try to accommodate as many as possible. But that's no easy task.

And so they do everything they can to accommodate, but the more options you give them, the more likely you're going to get something that you actually want. If you get to Walt Disney World and you get that notification telling you what room number you got and it isn't something that you requested, you can, as one last ditch effort, go to the front desk to politely ask if there's any way that they can still accommodate you, but the chances will be small at that point. So, I wouldn't get your hopes up, but it is one last ditch effort you can do to try to get what you're looking for if you are willing to do so. As a friendly reminder, room requests are never guaranteed. So, you can only hope for the best.

And the more options you give Disney, the better chance you will have of getting exactly what you want. I just walked by someone who was super disappointed that they got assigned in the '9s section. They didn't realize how far away it was from everything and they did not request a room and they were kind of trucking through with their luggage and backpacks and all their things. And that is exactly why I make these videos. I want you to have the most magical vacation possible.

So, if you enjoyed today's video, it would mean so much to me if you'd consider subscribing. If you would like this video and you'd hit that bell notification so you're notified next time I post a magical video. I post exclusively about Disney parks and more specifically about Disney planning content so that you can have the most magical trip of your dreams. If you have any questions about room requests or if you have a specific question about your specific situation, feel free to leave your question below and I will get back to you. If you've stayed at Pop Century before, I'd love to hear from you.

What section did you stay in? Did you like it? Did you not like it? What section do you want to try next time? And also feel free to share any lessons you've learned along the way as well.

It's always really fun when we can learn from one another. A huge heartfelt thank you to all my patrons because without them, this channel would not exist. If you would like to join us, we have a lot of fun over there and you also get a lot of exclusive behind-the-scenes content from me. If you want to consider joining, the link to join will be in the description below. Until next time, I'm Kenzie.

See you real soon.
