# You NEED To Know These Tips For Disney World Fireworks Before Your Trip

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nGnwb9QY8xQ&pp=ygUpZmlyZXdvcmtzIGF0IGRpc25leSB3b3JsZCB0aXBzIGFuZCB0cmlja3M%3D
Channel: AllEars.net
Duration: 31:34
Published: 2026-05-03
Retrieved: 2026-07-08T22:13:02.649193+00:00

## Transcript

You've powered through rope drop, you've survived the midday heat, you've eaten questionable amounts of Mickey-shaped snacks. Now, it's time for the cherry on top of your entire day. The moment when the park goes quiet, the castle glows, and the sky becomes pure magic. This is your complete guide to navigating Disney World fireworks like a pro. Disney World has quite the amount of fireworks, nighttime spectaculars, whatever you want to call them, and this video is going to be your complete guide to all of them because, no, unfortunately, you can't just show up anymore and enjoy the show.

We've got pro tips for you, and we're going to talk about them all right here, right now. Okay, first, let's start in Epcot. In Epcot, the nighttime fireworks spectacular is called Luminous the Symphony of Us. Now, this production features fireworks, fountains, lasers, lighting effects, and unforgettable Disney songs. It debuted on December 5th, 2023.

The show was originally created as part of the Walt Disney Company's 100th anniversary celebration, Disney 100 Years of Wonder. And as Disney's description goes, "Delight in a dramatic show designed to bring us all together. Marvel at a dazzling pageant of fireworks, fountains, music, and lights set to an original composition. Music, along with evocative selections from the Disney songbook, come together to remind us that we are more alike than we are different." Now, this show in Epcot lasts about 18 minutes, and it includes songs from Tarzan, Encanto, Toy Story, Aladdin, The Lion King, Enchanted, crazy crazy choice there, Enchanted, Frozen, Tangled, and even original music written especially for this show. You'll also hear a special message from Walt Disney himself, which always brings a tear to my eye.

So, Luminous is not a fan favorite, I'll say it, and I feel so bad saying that about any kind of show or anything in Disney World because I know people worked really hard on it. Luminous, it's great. It's fine. It's nothing super special. I hate saying that, but it's it's not a crowd-pleaser because people liked what we had before.

So, Disney history, we had Illuminations that was the Epcot fireworks show for years and years and years. When they ended it, people were very, very sad. People miss it every single day. It really encompassed what Epcot was all about and the World Showcase and it was a wonderful show. They got rid of it.

Then they gave us Harmonious, which people didn't love because there were barges in the middle of the World Showcase Lagoon. They were at They were all day long and, you know, they was a little distracting and it was not fun to look at when you're walking around World Showcase. You want to see the pretty World Showcase Lagoon and the barges were in the way. So, people didn't love walking around the World Showcase during the day with the barges in the middle. People were like, "Why can't you move them in and out like you moved the globe from Illuminations in and out?" So, people just didn't love it.

However, Harmonious was a great show. It really was. We just didn't like the barges in the middle of the day. So, Harmonious happened and then they got rid of that and now we have Luminous. It's a great end to your Epcot day.

However, it doesn't rank as high as other nighttime spectaculars just because it's kind of missing that story element. But, I will give it a shout-out for having enchanted songs in there because that is a crazy, crazy song choice in a good way that we don't talk about a lot. So, it's a good show, just not great. Now, what I will say as a pro for Luminous is that you can see it from anywhere in the World Showcase. There's not one certain spot that is better than anywhere else.

There are some places in the World Showcase where something like a tree might be in the way, but in general, you can be anywhere around that lagoon and see the show perfectly. Harmonious in the past had certain barges where you did want to be in a certain spot around the World Showcase. That is not the case anymore. You can see it from anywhere. So, we will give it points for that.

You don't have to rush to get a spot half an hour before the show. You can be walking out of a ride, walking out of your table reservation, or a shop and just happen upon the fireworks, and you can get a great view. So, we love that. Thank you, Luminous. Now, let's talk about dining packages because if you didn't know, there are fireworks dining packages in almost all of the parks.

So, for Luminous, there are three official fireworks dining packages that you can purchase. The first one is at Rose & Crown in the UK Pavilion. This dining package offers a pre-fix meal including an appetizer, entree, a dessert, and unlimited beverages. Rose & Crown serves classic British dishes like fish and chips, bangers and mash, and sticky toffee pudding. Guests will be seated on the outdoor patio where you can watch Luminous.

So, basically, a fireworks dining package, you're going to pay to have a great meal, and then you're going to get designated seating to watch the show. So, for Rose & Crown, you'll sit outside the restaurant right along the water, and it's a pretty cool spot to watch the fireworks. For adults, the price will start at $92 per person including tax and gratuity, and children ages 3 to 9 start at $41 per person. Your next option is Spice Road Table, and I will say I have done this dining package before, and it's pretty great. So, for this dining package, you will get your choice of two small plates, a shared tagine, a dessert platter for the table, and unlimited beverages.

Spice Road Table serves Mediterranean small plates such as hummus fries, non-spreads, and grilled lamb kofta. Guests will be seated on the covered outdoor dining room in the Morocco Pavilion from which you can enjoy Luminous. You'll see a lot of all these dining packages, you're going to eat in the restaurant, and then you're going to sit right outside, but it's right along the water, and it's really nice and pretty. Now, for Spice Road Table, adults start at $81 per person, and children ages 3 to 9 are $31 per person. Now, those are the main two dining packages for Epcot, but there's another fireworks experience that you can pay for.

So, you can actually pay for a fireworks experience over at the new Geo 82 Lounge that's inside Spaceship Earth. This enchanting extra, as Disney calls it, allows guests 21 and over to sit inside the lounge located inside Spaceship Earth to relax and watch Luminous while enjoying drinks and snacks. Now, because this is an enchanting extra, anytime Disney says that, that just means really expensive. But, it's an enchanting extra, so it costs $179 per person. Woo, but, however, this includes you can arrive to the lounge 60 minutes before the show.

You can hang out. You will get champagne included in a Spaceship Earth inspired glass, which is also available for purchase if you'd like to take it home with you. You get a dessert plate and a food tower, which features charcuterie, deviled eggs with crisp duck prosciutto, and pimento cheese macarons. So, there is quite a bit that comes with this. Still kind of a hefty price tag with the $179 for a person, but it is a cool view inside the lounge looking out at Epcot.

I'm just kind of imagining what Walt had envisioned. Like, you're behind the statue of Walt, so it's like you're watching him watch the fireworks and see what all Epcot has become. So, you know, that could kind of tug at your heartstrings a little. Now, with this experience, the tables closest to the windows will be reserved for those who booked the fireworks experience. However, the entire lounge is not exclusive to people who have bought the fireworks experience.

Regular reservations that just happen to be during fireworks times are also available, so you can also be there during fireworks without paying for the fireworks experience. However, you're not going to get the best views because, like I said, they reserve the tables closest to the windows for those who paid for the fireworks experience. But, you can still hang out inside the lounge and have a really great time watching the fireworks in the distance. And on that note, here are some other restaurants that is not a specific fireworks dining package, but you could get a reservation during fireworks times that will also make for a great experience. Those are Shiki-Sai over in Japan, GEO 82 Lounge like I just said, La Hacienda de San Angel over in the Mexico Pavilion, La Cantina de San Angel which is quick service.

You don't even need a reservation, but if you're just there during fireworks, it could be pretty cool. You can also snag a table over in the Germany Pavilion. So, there are plenty, plenty, plenty places to have a great experience watching the show. Overall, Epcot Luminous is a good show. I'm not going to tell you to go out of your way for it.

I'm not going to tell you that you have to get to your spot half an hour before the show and sit and wait. It's not like that. It's a very chill, if I can say that, nighttime fireworks spectacular. So, you don't even need to really plan your day around it. Do whatever you want in Epcot and then once fireworks are about to start, head over to the World Showcase or just, you know, walk around and watch the fireworks as you're still making your way around the World Showcase.

But, I won't judge you if you skip it either. Sorry, Epcot. Next up, we are heading to Hollywood Studios where I know, don't get mad at me, it's not a real fireworks show, but it has fireworks in them, so I'm counting it. This is basically a nighttime spectacular video anyways, and I'm talking about Fantasmic. Now, Fantasmic for a lot of people is their number one must-do thing in all of Disney World.

You have to do this on your Hollywood Studios day. It is not a Disney trip at all unless you see Fantasmic. People really love this show and I agree, so it has made it into this list. We have to talk about Fantasmic. Featuring stunning effects, thrilling stunts, dazzling pyrotechnics, and rousing music, this larger-than-life show is painted on a grand canvas of dancing water and light.

Overflowing with silly and suspenseful surprises, it will leave your entire family smiling from ear to ear. Now, this one this show has a plot. This show is storytelling, Disney storytelling at its finest. In this show, fast asleep, Mickey Mouse dreams that he is a mighty sorcerer's apprentice with the power to control water, color, and magic. The Disney villains, including Maleficent in the form of a towering 40-ft tall dragon, turns Mickey's dream into a nightmare.

But, don't underestimate the power of Mickey's imagination. This fantastic, wonderful fantasy show includes Disney characters from some of your favorite animated films like Moana, Frozen, Mulan, Aladdin, Pocahontas, Beauty and the Beast, The Little Mermaid, The Lion King, and more. This was a classic Disney show. It originated in Disneyland, and the Hollywood Studios version has been around since 1998 as part of the Sunset Boulevard expansion. This show is just the culmination of everything that we love about Disney.

The characters, the storytelling, the technology, all of it put together in this wonderful show. It is just Disney magic at its finest. I love the fireworks in Magic Kingdom, and we're going to talk about it next, but Fantasmic is just I I don't know how to describe it. It is just so wonderful. If you're nostalgic for how Disney movies made you feel when you were a kid, you will love this show.

Even as adults, like it brings back all those memories. And there was one time, oh my gosh, I'm going to tear up just thinking about it, talking about it. There was one time, me, Emma, and Quincy, we were filming a perfect day in Hollywood Studios, and there was a family in front of us. It was mom and dad and two kids, a daughter and a son. And it was just the sweetest thing because you could tell the parents had been to Disney before and they were excited for their kids to see this show for the first time.

And it was it was really cute. The show starts out, Mickey, he's he's having fun, he's having a dream, and then all of a sudden Maleficent and the villains show up and it becomes a nightmare. And the little girl was really scared and she didn't know what was going to happen. Oh my god. And the little boy was sitting next to the two kids were in the middle and between the parents and the little boy was comforting his sister and was like, "It's going to be okay.

It's going to be okay. Like Mickey's going to save the day." Oh my gosh. And then the parents were crying and then we were sitting behind them. We were all Everybody was crying. Everybody was crying.

You cannot cry. You cannot not cry when you see this show. Like I don't know what it is. If you don't cry, I don't know what to tell you. Like where is your whimsy?

You know, like this is just one of the best shows in all of Disney World. It has everything you could ever want. It's got characters. It's got great stunt scenes. They recently, in the past few years, maybe it's been three or four years now, um they added a new scene with like heroic villains.

So, they added with Ron, they added Moana, they added Elsa where she has a full costume transformation right there in front of your eyes and it's just it's it's wonderful. Disney could never I don't want to say they can never top this because it's that's a crazy thing to say. They probably will at some point. But, Fantasmic is a must-see. You absolutely have to do it on your Hollywood Studios day.

Even if, you know, if you're just park hopping, park hop over to Hollywood Studios and watch this at the end of the day. Like it's it's a must-see. That's all I can say. It's a must-see. I have to continue on or else I'm just going to keep crying.

So, we're going to move on. It's just just know it's a must-see. This show is about 29 minutes, so it is a little bit longer. Um and this one you will want to make sure you get there ahead of time to get a spot. The show is down on Sunset Boulevard.

It's got a huge amphitheater. There are plenty of seats. So, like don't be worried about not getting a seat, but you want to be worried about getting a good seat. So, you want to get there at least half an hour before if not more. What I like to do is I'll go grab something to eat from a quick service.

You can eat in the amphitheater and they also have um concession stands once you get in there, but those are going to have long lines. So, what I personally love to do is to go get a waffle bowl from Fairfax Fare, bring it over into the Fantasmic Theater, sit, relax, get off your feet for a little bit, and make sure you get a good spot before the show starts. Of course, when you're closer to the middle, that will be a better seat than one on the side. Any anywhere you sit in the show is going to be good unless you're right behind one of the poles for the lights, but overall, you don't need to be too concerned about finding a great spot because all of the seats are going to be good. However, again, you want to make sure you get there on time.

The show can fill up will stop people from coming in. So, just make sure you get there ahead of time, sit, relax, enjoy some food, enjoy some snacks, maybe popcorn, an ice cream, what have you, and just relax and watch one of the best shows in all Disney World. Also, this is a great show because the pre-show music is fantastic. Some of you kids watching this video won't understand cuz you're not old enough, but the pre-show music is like old Radio Disney songs and covers, and it's like Ashley Tisdale singing Kiss the Girl from when she was on Disney Channel. And you know all these Disney Channel stars singing their covers of Disney songs, it's fantastic.

Sometimes I just want to go and hang out there just to listen to the pre-show music. So, overall, this is a fantastic show. Now, let's talk about dining packages because there are Fantasmic dining packages as well, and honestly, these are pretty good deal. The Fantasmic dining package offers a meal at participating restaurants in Hollywood Studios, and you get reserved seating for a show of Fantasmic. Guests may choose from 50's Prime Time Cafe, Hollywood and Vine, Sci-Fi Dine-In Theater, and the Hollywood Brown Derby for this dining package.

Hollywood and Vine is both a character meal and a buffet, and the meal includes a non-alcoholic beverage or an alcoholic beverage for 21 and up. Minnie's Seasonal Dine for lunch and dinner features Minnie, Mickey, Goofy, and Pluto in a meal themed for the current season. For breakfast, adults will cost $67, and children will be 42. And for lunch and dinner, adults will cost $81 and children will be 51. Hollywood Vine also accepts the Disney Dining Plan and requires one table service credit per person.

So, if you're wanting a character buffet, if you're wanting a nice sit-down meal with your kids, and then also getting reserved seating for Fantasmic, this could be a great place to do it. And if you're on the dining plan, there you go. I think that's a great option. The Hollywood Brown Derby is a signature table service restaurant, and this package includes an entree, dessert, and a non-alcoholic beverage or an alcoholic beverage for 21 and up. For lunch and dinner, adults will cost $83 and children will cost $31.

The Hollywood Brown Derby also accepts the dining plan and requires two table service credits per person. So, you know, we're not going to get into semantics about dining plan in this video. Uh two table service credits is kind of crazy, so I don't really recommend dining plan credits for this one, but if you wanted to eat here anyways and you want to watch Fantasmic, you could do both and get a great seat for the show and just pay out of pocket. Also, we've got Sci-Fi Dine-In Theater. This restaurant is a table service and the package includes an entree, dessert, and a beverage, non-alcoholic or alcoholic for those 21 and up.

Lunch and dinner here will cost $57 for adults and $23 for kids. Sci-Fi Dine-In also accepts the Disney Dining Plan and requires one table service credit per person. Per person. And finally, 50's Prime Time Cafe is another table service restaurant and the package includes an entree, dessert, and a beverage, non-alcoholic or alcoholic for 21 and up. Lunch and dinner here will cost $60 for adults and $23 for kids.

50's Prime Time Cafe also accepts the Disney Dining Plan and requires one table service credit per person. So, there's a many great options here. These are all good restaurants. We have reviews on all of them if you're interested in seeing what that looks like, whether you want to use dining plan credits or just pay out of pocket. I'm going to be honest with you and say the Fantasmic Dining package is the only one that I personally would pay for.

The others in Epcot and in Magic Kingdom that we will talk about, I personally would not pay for it and I would not tell you that you should pay money for those. However, if you're having a Hollywood Studios day, you know you want to have a nice meal that you are already planning on having, why not get the package and then you also get a nice great seat for Fantasmic that you don't have to go ahead of time and save your spot for is they reserve it for you. So, honestly, the Fantasmic dining package is the one that I would choose. Pick from the list of restaurants, have a great meal, see a great show, have a fantastic day in Hollywood Studios. Overall, I know there are people out there that put Fantasmic as number one and I'm honestly right now in a battle in my head between Hollywood Studios and Magic Kingdom because there's just something There's something about the Magic Kingdom fireworks that just gets me every time.

So, these two always clash in my head, but either way, fantastic shows in Disney world, you won't be disappointed. So, now, let's head over to Magic Kingdom for kind of arguably the best We'll say the best fireworks show in Disney world because Fantasmic That's a nighttime spectacular, which so is Magic Kingdom's, but for this for today's purposes, we're separating the two because we can like them both, okay? So, let's go to Magic Kingdom, which I do need to comment and tell you that unfortunately for this video, we're not talking about Animal Kingdom. Animal Kingdom does not have fireworks at all ever because it would scare the animals and they got to go to sleep. They can't stay up late, so Animal Kingdom doesn't even stay open late enough for there to be fireworks and they wouldn't do it for the animals anyways.

So, I'm sorry, Animal Kingdom is not included in this video. Now, the crème de la crème of all fireworks shows anywhere in the world Yeah, I said it. We are talking about Magic Kingdom's firework nighttime spectacular Happily Ever After. Happily Ever After is a fireworks and projection mapping show which debuted at the Magic Kingdom on May 12th, 2017. And that was the day that my life changed forever.

Man, I think that was the day that they hooked me as a Disney adult. No, that's not true cuz I was one in high school. But that was the day it it really sealed the deal. In this show you will go on a dazzling journey of color, light, and song that captures the heart, humor, and heroism of favorite Disney stories. Watch in awe as Cinderella Castle is magically transformed through amazing state-of-the-art projection technology you have to see to believe.

This astounding fireworks extravaganza uses lights, lasers, and special effects, plus a soaring score featuring contemporary versions of beloved Disney songs. Discover the magic of stories and be inspired to find your own happily ever after. Man, this show. When I just hear the first like four beats of the song in the very first part of the show, it hits me. It hits me in the heart every single time.

This show, it's 18 minutes long so it's not the longest, but it once again how I describe Fantasmic, it is basically I don't even know how to describe it. It it's Disney storytelling at its finest. Cinderella Castle is all lit up. It's projected onto Cinderella Castle plus all of the fireworks. There are now projections down Main Street.

They've added that in the past few years. I just all of this. You are completely surrounded by Disney magic, by storytelling, by those songs that you've loved ever since you were a little kid, and it just hits differently when when you get older. You know, like Hercules talking about finding his way, just when you're an adult it hits different. It really does.

And I don't know how better to say it, but Happily Ever After is my number one favorite nighttime show, fireworks show, nighttime spectacular in Disney World. I have to see it every single time that I'm there. I will never get tired of it. I listen to it at home. I listen to it in the car.

It just It's It's Disney storytelling at its finest. It is a culmination of everything that we love about Disney and it's just magical. That one word is magical. And it It's really sweet to see people around you watching the show either for the first time or, you know, for their hundredth time and they're just immersed in the Disney magic and love story and they're with their special person or their family and it's just so sweet. And I'm not going to give any spoilers cuz there might be some of you out there who have never seen it and I don't want to spoil it for you, but there's a nice surprise that happens at the end of the show that just gets me every time because kids see it and they believe in the magic.

Like at the end of the day, it's kids believing in the magic and that is so sweet. Now, let's talk about the best spots to see it because there are specific spots for this one that you're going to want to watch. If you want the best projections, if you want to see the best of the castle, you're going to want to be closer to it. You're going to want to be right in front of the castle. Maybe not necessarily like standing up looking at it like this.

You can. Um however, one of my favorite spots is kind of in the middle of the hub. If you get right along one of the railings where the railing is in front of you, I'm a shorty, so I like not having someone directly in front of me. Um but if I'm standing right along one of the railings where bushes are in front of me so I have a little bit of space and then I can see the projections and the fireworks. That to me is one of my favorite spots to watch it.

However, if you want a better view of all of the projections and the fireworks, you're going to want to be farther back on Main Street. Sometimes even at the train station because recently in the past few years they've added more projections along the buildings of Main Street. So if you're in front of Main Street, you're not going to see them all. So if you want to make sure you see the entire show, you're going to want to be a little bit farther back. Um you're going to be kind of squished.

Anywhere you watch the show, it's going to be squished cuz it's it's Magic Kingdom fireworks, so you can't avoid that. But if you want to see more of the projections, get farther back on Main Street, get you some Casey's Corner Dog Nuggets, hang out, watch the show, cry, and then go back to your resort. What a perfect day. Now, if you want to watch it and have the quickest exit out of Main Street because sometimes that is important, you're going to want to pretty much be outside of Magic Kingdom. You can be right at the train station, so as soon as it ends, you're booking it out of there, you're the first in line to get onto the monorail or the ferry boat to get back to your resort or to your car.

Which I understand that's very important and sometimes you don't want to get lost in the sea of people after fireworks. So, if that's your goal, get in the back. You'll still have a great view of the show. Now, if you don't necessarily care about seeing the projections, you're more fireworks person, I would recommend you watch the show from behind the castle because some of the fireworks go off right off of Cinderella's Castle, but a lot of them are farther back behind Fantasyland. So, if you watch the show standing around Cinderella's Carousel That's not Cinderella's Carousel.

So sorry, it is Prince Charming's. But, if you stand kind of in that area behind the castle, behind the carousel, you will be surrounded, completely 360 surrounded by fireworks and that, I've watched it a few times from that spot, it's it's extra magical. You you feel like you're really in it and it's it's really cool. And you can still see, for a brief second, you can still see the big surprise at the end of the show, if you know what I'm talking about. Also, from time to time, I'm not telling you that this will ever be guaranteed, but sometimes characters will be roaming during Happily Ever After back behind the castle in Fantasyland.

I personally have watched Cinderella watch Happily Ever After and that was also a very magical experience. So, sometimes, you never know, characters might be out roaming, they might want to see the show for themselves. This will never be a formal meet and greet, they're going to be walking, they're not going to stop and take pictures with people. It's just one of those magical moments where you're like, "Oh my gosh, Cinderella's here." and then you watch it with her and then she'll be like, "Isn't it wonderful?" And you'll say, "Yes, it is, Cinderella." And then she'll give you a little And then she'll walk away and it will be one of the most magical moments you've ever had in your life. Okay?

So, don't expect a full meet and greet, but you might see You might see a princess from time to time. And it's really fun and magical. And our pro tip that we always talk about, if you don't really care about fireworks, fireworks is the time to ride rides because everybody is going to be on Main Street watching that show. So, you will get way lower waits for those popular rides throughout the entire park. However, why not do both?

Why not do both? Now, your timing might not always be great, but there are some rides that are super amazing and magical to ride during the fireworks because you can see the fireworks, see the show from the ride. The rides I'm talking about, PeopleMover, Astro Orbiter, Tomorrowland Speedway, The Magic Carpets of Aladdin. You kind of You catch my drift here? Outdoor rides are amazing to ride during the fireworks.

I've ridden all of these during the fireworks and they all had their magical moments. One of the most magical was PeopleMover and I got the timing just right for that surprise finale and it was amazing. I loved it. I also one time rode Seven Dwarfs Mine Train. I was doing a ride challenge.

We can link it. It was years and years ago, but I was doing a ride challenge and I was on Seven Dwarfs Mine Train during the fireworks and I was I was on it. We were in the mine, whatever. And then we get up to the lift hill for after the Mine Train or after the mine and it stopped for a few seconds. I was like, "Oh, no, we're going to get stuck.

Like, it's about to be the big finale for Happily Ever After. I'm going to miss it. Like, this is not fun." We sat there for a few minutes and then we get up on the lift hill and then we go down the hill and it's the big the big finale, the big climax of the show and the surprise the surprise is happening and the music is just really loud and it got very emotional and that that was the best time I've ever had watching the show because I had completed my ride challenge. Um I was doing all of these things. It'd been a long day or 2 days in Disney World, whatever it was, and it was just so magical, and it was perfect, and I got it on film, and that I don't think I'll ever I think that was the best thing I've ever done for work.

I don't think anything will top that, honestly. So, that one that was a once-in-a- once-in-a-lifetime kind of moment. You can't really plan that out, but that's just another example of Disney magic happens when you least expect it. Can you hear my neighbor? I have a neighbor who sings opera most hours of the day.

But again, like I said, if you don't care about fireworks, keep riding those rides for those low weights, and you might see the show anyways. Now, let's talk about dining packages here for Magic Kingdom. There are a couple different ones, and they're not they're not like the other parks. The Magic Kingdom fireworks pre-party dessert party starts at Tomorrowland Terrace Restaurant, where guests enjoy beverages, including a selection of beer and wine, and desserts at Tomorrowland Terrace prior to the show. Guests are then escorted to a reserved seating area in the Magic Kingdom Plaza Garden to view the fireworks.

Adult prices range from $99 to $109. Prices will vary by date, and children will cost $59. So, that's the pre-dessert party that happens before the show. Now, the Magic Kingdom fireworks Seats and Sweets Party takes place at Tomorrowland Terrace Restaurant, where guests will enjoy beverages, including a selection of beer and wine, and desserts, then remain at Tomorrowland Terrace with dedicated seating from which to view the show. Adult prices for this range from $124 to $134, and children $74.

And finally, the Magic Kingdom fireworks post party starts with a reserved standing area in the Magic Kingdom Plaza Garden to view the Magic Kingdom fireworks spectacular Happily Ever After. And then after the show, guests proceed to Tomorrowland Terrace Restaurant, and then enjoy beverages, including that selection of beer and wine, and desserts. Adult prices for this one range from $99 to $109, and children cost $59. No matter which option you choose, you will enjoy a selection of desserts inspired by each Magic Kingdom land. How cute.

So, there are different options for this one. You're either, you know, pre-party, during the fireworks, or the post-party. They have different options. Um just check the calendar for what's available, and prices will vary by date. These, I'm not going to tell you to pay $134 to have a couple cupcakes and a glass of wine to watch happily ever after.

Sorry, I don't think that's worth it. But, if it is a special occasion, if this is a bucket list item for you, maybe it's a one-time thing, go for it. Go for it if that's your heart's desire. But, personally, I don't think it's worth it. Because I'm just going to go get me an ice cream from the ice cream parlor and stand in my favorite spot to watch the fireworks and basically have the same experience.

But, to each their own. To each their own. But, that is not the only thing you could do when it comes to Magic Kingdom fireworks. You can actually take a boat cruise. You can actually charter a private watercraft and set sail on a relaxing specialty cruise from one of the Walt Disney World marinas to enjoy a stunning firework show.

These are for Epcot and Magic Kingdom. Prices start at $499 plus tax and vary by date. Boats can seat up to 10 guests. Each cruise is accompanied by a captain and includes assorted snacks and soft drinks. So, that is another option.

You won't necessarily have the best views of the fireworks. For example, Magic Kingdom boat cruises, you're going to be outside the gates of Magic Kingdom. So, it won't it won't be the best viewing. If if you're watching it for the first time, maybe I don't recommend the boat cruise. But, again, if it's a special occasion, if it's bachelor/bachelorette party, if you're celebrating something, I think I would like to do these at one point in my life.

I think it'd be really fun. Another bucket list item. Plus, up to 10 guests, you can split that price. So, it's not that bad if you're splitting it among people. But again, these are another option for you.

You do have to reserve it in advance. Are any of these dining packages a must do? No, absolutely not. These are just extra options that Disney has that I want to make sure you know about if you are interested or celebrating a special occasion. Now that is your guide to fireworks in Disney World.

Some of my favorite parts of any Disney day are the end of the night when you watch that fireworks spectacular nighttime spectacular. It's where a lot of core Disney memories are made for me and it's one of the most magical parts of a Disney vacation and I want you to experience that as well. So, if you're still here, please like this video and drop this secret code in the comments so we know you stayed and watched the whole thing. And don't forget to subscribe. We upload games, tips, challenges, and more from Disney World and beyond all week long because we're serious about fun.

Thanks for watching and we'll see you next time.
